docs/faq/compute.md, before:

---
title: Compute
permalink: faq/compute
sidebarDepth: 1
---

# FAQ on lab compute

This page list frequently asked questions related to computation and analysis in labs.

[[toc]]

## Resources

### Can I upgrade my compute resources?

Yes, you can. Your [lab leader](/faq/users/#user-roles) and lab coordinator approves upgrades both for cpu and memory of individual machines, and supplement of new machines in accordance with our [machine types](https://www.ntnu.edu/mh/huntcloud/cloud-services/hunt-compute). Forward upgrade requests to us on [email](/contact) with your lab leader and lab coordinator on cc.

### Is my process hitting memory issues?

See below for descriptions on how to monitor your memory consumption using the `htop` and `time` commands.

### Can I monitor my resource consumption?

Yes. You have several options:

(1) A quick way is to use [HTOP](https://docs.hdc.ntnu.no/working-in-your-lab/technical-tools/htop/) for interactive monitoring of cpu and memory inside individual machines.

(2) The [time](http://man7.org/linux/man-pages/man1/time.1.html) command is a quick way to determine the duration of execution of a particular command. For example add `/usr/bin/time -v` before your command to get going:

:::details /usr/bin/time examples

```bash
# -- principal example
/usr/bin/time -v <your-comand>

# -- command example
/usr/bin/time -v ls

# -- script example
/usr/bin/time -v ./script.sh
```

[Read more time command example](https://www.cyberciti.biz/faq/unix-linux-time-command-examples-usage-syntax/)

When your command or script finishes, `time` writes a message to standard error giving timing statistics about your program run, for example:

```
        Command being timed: "ls /"
        User time (seconds): 0.00
        System time (seconds): 0.01
        Percent of CPU this job got: 250%
        Elapsed (wall clock) time (h:mm:ss or m:ss): 0:00.00
        Average shared text size (kbytes): 0
        Average unshared data size (kbytes): 0
        Average stack size (kbytes): 0
        Average total size (kbytes): 0
        Maximum resident set size (kbytes): 0
        Average resident set size (kbytes): 0
        Major (requiring I/O) page faults: 0
        Minor (reclaiming a frame) page faults: 315
        Voluntary context switches: 2
        Involuntary context switches: 0
        Swaps: 0
        File system inputs: 0
        File system outputs: 0
        Socket messages sent: 0
        Socket messages received: 0
        Signals delivered: 0
        Page size (bytes): 4096
        Exit status: 0
```

:::

(3) Use your monthly "Lab report" sent to your lab leader and lab coordinator for tracking of longer term resource consumptions inside your lab.



## Software

### Can I bring my own software and licenses?

Yes. You can install your own software in your lab environment under a _bring-your-own-software_ and _bring-your-own-license_ policy. Your lab leader is responsible to ensure that licensed software is used in accordance with the license agreement inside the lab environments. [Contact us](/contact) for installation of licensed software on your home-machine.

### How do I install my own software?

A quick way to install open-source software packages is to use the built in [apt package tool](https://itsfoss.com/apt-get-linux-guide/) in Ubuntu:

```bash
sudo apt install <packagename>
```

### Can I run MatLab, Stata, SPSS and RStudio?

Yes. You can run commonly used analytical tools, such MatLab, Stata, SPSS and Rstudio directly from your lab. You will need to bring a license from your host institution if you are affiliated outside of NTNU. Graphical user interfaces are accessed through the X2Go-software. [Contact us](/contact) for installations on home-machines.

### Can I run Windows software?

Most likely. Many commonly used software in scientific computing can be run from your lab, such as MatLab, Stata, and SPSS, including many special tools for image analysis and genetic analysis. However, we do run Linux as the operating systems in your lab. Some Windows tools will therefore be unavailable. We do provide Windows systems in those rare cases when this is the only option to run mission critical applications. [Contact us](/contact) if you think you do need Windows tools to get your science to fly.

### Can I run Docker images? 

Yes. You can run [Docker images](https://www.docker.com/) on both [iaas](/faq/compute/#what-is-an-iaas-machine) and [blue](/faq/compute/#what-is-a-blue-machine) machines. Docker images can not be run from home machines due to security reasons.

### Can I run Singularity containers? 

Yes, you can run your Singularity containers on both home, iaas and blue machines.


## Workflow

### How can I keep my jobs running when I disconnect?

Yes. You can keep your terminal jobs and sessions running by using something called a terminal multiplexer. See our [terminal multiplexers guide](/working-in-your-lab/technical-tools/terminal-multiplexers/) to get started. Your jobs over [X2Go](/working-in-your-lab/technical-tools/x2go/#set-up-your-local-machine), such as Rstudio and Stata, should be kept alive between your logins by default.

### How can I profile the resources needed in my workflow?

For longer workflows your resource consumption may differ for each step in your code. Profiling tools may help to identify consumption for each part, such as time, cpu, mem, etc., both within your code and any third party libraries that you may utilize.

::: details See example of profiling tools

For those interested in a deep dive into profiling, we recommend to get familiar with [Flame graphs](http://www.brendangregg.com/flamegraphs.html).

Examples of python profilers:

- [py-spy](https://github.com/benfred/py-spy) - top-like sampling profiler (low overhead, non-interuptive, flamegraphs)
- [scalene](https://github.com/emeryberger/scalene) - a high-performance CPU and memory profiler for Python.
- [vprof](https://github.com/nvdv/vprof) - Visual Python profiler.

Examples of R profilers:

- [profvis](https://rstudio.github.io/profvis/) - Interactive visualizations for profiling R Code.

:::


## Maintenance

### Can I restart our lab machines?

Yes. You can restart your home, iaas and blue machines by running the **`reboot`** command. We have enabled this command so that you can schedule restarts in according with computational workflows.

```bash
sudo reboot
```

::: warning
Please be aware that restarts will affect all of your lab colleagues working on your machine. Our advice is to carefully plan restarts with your lab colleagues and announce such restarts in advance so no one looses their valuable work. [Click here](/faq/users/#how-can-i-see-users-currently-logged-into-a-machine) to see which users that are currently logged into your machines.
:::

### Can I update our operating system on home?

No. Your home machine is configured for reliability. We have therefore chosen to run long term support versions of your operating systems here. Your home machine will therefore typically run one version behind the latest release. We understand that your workflow sometimes require newer versions. Therefore, [contact us](/contact) for deployment of iaas and blue machines that comes with the latest LTS Ubuntu release as default.

### Can I get a machine with the latest Ubuntu release?

Yes. Both [iaas](/faq/compute/#what-is-an-iaas-machine) and [blue](/faq/compute/#what-is-a-blue-machine) machines are deployed with the latest long term support Ubuntu version. From there, you can upgrade to your version of choice.  [Contact us](/contact) if your workflow require other linux operating systems.

### When do you plan to upgrade our home operating system?

We will typically plan to upgrade operating systems every two years in accordance with on home machines when a new long term support

## Machine types

You will meet four principal machine types in your lab. You may choose to deploy home, iaas and blue machines in [various sizes](https://www.ntnu.edu/mh/huntcloud/cloud-services/hunt-compute).

### What is a "home" machine?

This is a managed machine type. All labs have one "home" machine that is pre-configured with user accounts, [attached storage](/faq/storage/#resources) and some analytical software. Users may download their own software using the **`apt`** package manager and reboot their machine when needed. Further configurations has to be guided by us. Home machines run Ubuntu 16.04 operating systems.

### What is an "iaas" machine?

In addition to the home machine, lab leaders and lab coordinators may request new "iaas" (infrastructure as a service) machines to be deployed in your lab. This is an unmanaged machine type where you as a lab user get full administrator privileges (root access). We expect you to configure and maintain these machines yourself. We usually deploy these machines with vanilla Ubuntu 18.04 operating system, 1TB of storage and the machine size of your choice. Iaas machines are deployed for a minimum of 30 days.

### What is a "blue" machine?

Blue machines are identical to iaas machine with one exceptions: they are deployed for a maximum of 30 days. The machine type is introduced to allow for flexible deployments of short-lived high capacity environments.

### What is an "entry" machine?

You will meet the "entry" machine when you configure your account during your initial onboarding. Hopefully, you will not meet this machine type again. The machine type is introduced for security purposes allowing us to quickly install security updates and do machine restarts without affecting your analyis in the other lab machines.

### What is your "local" machine?

We use this term for the machine that you use to connect to your lab, such as your laptop and your desktop.

Commit message:

recommendation on where to install software

docs/faq/compute.md, after:

---
title: Compute
permalink: faq/compute
sidebarDepth: 1
---

# FAQ on lab compute

This page list frequently asked questions related to computation and analysis in labs.

[[toc]]

## Resources

### Can I upgrade my compute resources?

Yes, you can. Your [lab leader](/faq/users/#user-roles) and lab coordinator approves upgrades both for cpu and memory of individual machines, and supplement of new machines in accordance with our [machine types](https://www.ntnu.edu/mh/huntcloud/cloud-services/hunt-compute). Forward upgrade requests to us on [email](/contact) with your lab leader and lab coordinator on cc.

### Is my process hitting memory issues?

See below for descriptions on how to monitor your memory consumption using the `htop` and `time` commands.

### Can I monitor my resource consumption?

Yes. You have several options:

(1) A quick way is to use [HTOP](https://docs.hdc.ntnu.no/working-in-your-lab/technical-tools/htop/) for interactive monitoring of cpu and memory inside individual machines.

(2) The [time](http://man7.org/linux/man-pages/man1/time.1.html) command is a quick way to determine the duration of execution of a particular command. For example add `/usr/bin/time -v` before your command to get going:

:::details /usr/bin/time examples

```bash
# -- principal example
/usr/bin/time -v <your-comand>

# -- command example
/usr/bin/time -v ls

# -- script example
/usr/bin/time -v ./script.sh
```

[Read more time command example](https://www.cyberciti.biz/faq/unix-linux-time-command-examples-usage-syntax/)

When your command or script finishes, `time` writes a message to standard error giving timing statistics about your program run, for example:

```
        Command being timed: "ls /"
        User time (seconds): 0.00
        System time (seconds): 0.01
        Percent of CPU this job got: 250%
        Elapsed (wall clock) time (h:mm:ss or m:ss): 0:00.00
        Average shared text size (kbytes): 0
        Average unshared data size (kbytes): 0
        Average stack size (kbytes): 0
        Average total size (kbytes): 0
        Maximum resident set size (kbytes): 0
        Average resident set size (kbytes): 0
        Major (requiring I/O) page faults: 0
        Minor (reclaiming a frame) page faults: 315
        Voluntary context switches: 2
        Involuntary context switches: 0
        Swaps: 0
        File system inputs: 0
        File system outputs: 0
        Socket messages sent: 0
        Socket messages received: 0
        Signals delivered: 0
        Page size (bytes): 4096
        Exit status: 0
```

:::

(3) Use your monthly "Lab report" sent to your lab leader and lab coordinator for tracking of longer term resource consumptions inside your lab.



## Software

### Can I bring my own software and licenses?

Yes. You can install your own software in your lab environment under a _bring-your-own-software_ and _bring-your-own-license_ policy. Your lab leader is responsible to ensure that licensed software is used in accordance with the license agreement inside the lab environments. [Contact us](/contact) for installation of licensed software on your home-machine.

### How do I install my own software?

A quick way to install open-source software packages is to use the built in [apt package tool](https://itsfoss.com/apt-get-linux-guide/) in Ubuntu:

```bash
sudo apt install <packagename>
```

### Where can I install my software? 

On you home machine, we recommend that you install software that you download in a folder that is reachable for all of your fellow lab users, such as **`/mnt/works/software`**. Software installations that uses **`apt`** (see above) will automatically install in the correct folders. 

### Can I run MatLab, Stata, SPSS and RStudio?

Yes. You can run commonly used analytical tools, such MatLab, Stata, SPSS and Rstudio directly from your lab. You will need to bring a license from your host institution if you are affiliated outside of NTNU. Graphical user interfaces are accessed through the X2Go-software. [Contact us](/contact) for installations on home-machines.

### Can I run Windows software?

Most likely. Many commonly used software in scientific computing can be run from your lab, such as MatLab, Stata, and SPSS, including many special tools for image analysis and genetic analysis. However, we do run Linux as the operating systems in your lab. Some Windows tools will therefore be unavailable. We do provide Windows systems in those rare cases when this is the only option to run mission critical applications. [Contact us](/contact) if you think you do need Windows tools to get your science to fly.

### Can I run Docker images? 

Yes. You can run [Docker images](https://www.docker.com/) on both [iaas](/faq/compute/#what-is-an-iaas-machine) and [blue](/faq/compute/#what-is-a-blue-machine) machines. Docker images can not be run from home machines due to security reasons.

### Can I run Singularity containers? 

Yes, you can run your Singularity containers on both home, iaas and blue machines.


## Workflow

### How can I keep my jobs running when I disconnect?

Yes. You can keep your terminal jobs and sessions running by using something called a terminal multiplexer. See our [terminal multiplexers guide](/working-in-your-lab/technical-tools/terminal-multiplexers/) to get started. Your jobs over [X2Go](/working-in-your-lab/technical-tools/x2go/#set-up-your-local-machine), such as Rstudio and Stata, should be kept alive between your logins by default.

### How can I profile the resources needed in my workflow?

For longer workflows your resource consumption may differ for each step in your code. Profiling tools may help to identify consumption for each part, such as time, cpu, mem, etc., both within your code and any third party libraries that you may utilize.

::: details See example of profiling tools

For those interested in a deep dive into profiling, we recommend to get familiar with [Flame graphs](http://www.brendangregg.com/flamegraphs.html).

Examples of python profilers:

- [py-spy](https://github.com/benfred/py-spy) - top-like sampling profiler (low overhead, non-interuptive, flamegraphs)
- [scalene](https://github.com/emeryberger/scalene) - a high-performance CPU and memory profiler for Python.
- [vprof](https://github.com/nvdv/vprof) - Visual Python profiler.

Examples of R profilers:

- [profvis](https://rstudio.github.io/profvis/) - Interactive visualizations for profiling R Code.

:::


## Maintenance

### Can I restart our lab machines?

Yes. You can restart your home, iaas and blue machines by running the **`reboot`** command. We have enabled this command so that you can schedule restarts in according with computational workflows.

```bash
sudo reboot
```

::: warning
Please be aware that restarts will affect all of your lab colleagues working on your machine. Our advice is to carefully plan restarts with your lab colleagues and announce such restarts in advance so no one looses their valuable work. [Click here](/faq/users/#how-can-i-see-users-currently-logged-into-a-machine) to see which users that are currently logged into your machines.
:::

### Can I update our operating system on home?

No. Your home machine is configured for reliability. We have therefore chosen to run long term support versions of your operating systems here. Your home machine will therefore typically run one version behind the latest release. We understand that your workflow sometimes require newer versions. Therefore, [contact us](/contact) for deployment of iaas and blue machines that comes with the latest LTS Ubuntu release as default.

### Can I get a machine with the latest Ubuntu release?

Yes. Both [iaas](/faq/compute/#what-is-an-iaas-machine) and [blue](/faq/compute/#what-is-a-blue-machine) machines are deployed with the latest long term support Ubuntu version. From there, you can upgrade to your version of choice.  [Contact us](/contact) if your workflow require other linux operating systems.

### When do you plan to upgrade our home operating system?

We will typically plan to upgrade operating systems every two years in accordance with on home machines when a new long term support

## Machine types

You will meet four principal machine types in your lab. You may choose to deploy home, iaas and blue machines in [various sizes](https://www.ntnu.edu/mh/huntcloud/cloud-services/hunt-compute).

### What is a "home" machine?

This is a managed machine type. All labs have one "home" machine that is pre-configured with user accounts, [attached storage](/faq/storage/#resources) and some analytical software. Users may download their own software using the **`apt`** package manager and reboot their machine when needed. Further configurations has to be guided by us. Home machines run Ubuntu 16.04 operating systems.

### What is an "iaas" machine?

In addition to the home machine, lab leaders and lab coordinators may request new "iaas" (infrastructure as a service) machines to be deployed in your lab. This is an unmanaged machine type where you as a lab user get full administrator privileges (root access). We expect you to configure and maintain these machines yourself. We usually deploy these machines with vanilla Ubuntu 18.04 operating system, 1TB of storage and the machine size of your choice. Iaas machines are deployed for a minimum of 30 days.

### What is a "blue" machine?

Blue machines are identical to iaas machine with one exceptions: they are deployed for a maximum of 30 days. The machine type is introduced to allow for flexible deployments of short-lived high capacity environments.

### What is an "entry" machine?

You will meet the "entry" machine when you configure your account during your initial onboarding. Hopefully, you will not meet this machine type again. The machine type is introduced for security purposes allowing us to quickly install security updates and do machine restarts without affecting your analyis in the other lab machines.

### What is your "local" machine?

We use this term for the machine that you use to connect to your lab, such as your laptop and your desktop.
