docs/do-science/hunt-workbench/troubleshooting.md, before:

---
title: Troubleshooting
category: HUNT Workbench
permalink: /do-science/hunt-workbench/troubleshooting
sidebarDepth: 1
description: HUNT Workbench troubleshooting.
---

# HUNT Workbench troubleshooting

**Unfortunately, things don't always work as intended. Here is a collection of known issues that you might encounter in your HUNT Workbench. Contact us if you are still stuck after reading up.**

[[toc]]

::: tip

See our [HUNT Workbench FAQ](/do-science/hunt-workbench/faq/) for general questions, and our [Immediate troubleshooting](/do-science/hunt-workbench/installation/#immediate-troubleshooting) for issues during your first installation. 

:::


## Access

### Unable to access HUNT Workbench applications

If you were previously able to access your applications (such as _RStudio_), and then the application suddenly stopped working, one quick approach is to try restarting your HUNT Workbench environment. Follow this guide to [restart your workbench](/do-science/hunt-workbench/faq/#how-can-i-restart-my-workbench-environment). 

If this do not help, you may have a look at our [FAQ](/do-science/hunt-workbench/faq/) or [Troubleshooting](/do-science/hunt-workbench/troubleshooting/) sections.  [Contact us](/contact) on email or reach out in your lab channel on Slack for further investigation if this does not help.


### 403: Forbidden - Expired client certificate

Your HUNT Workbench certificate is time limited. You will meet the **`403 Forbidden`** message when your certificate expire (example image below). Head over our do science [service desk](/do-science/service-desk#hunt-workbench-reissue) to order a certificate reissue.

![expired_certificate.png](./images/expired_certificate.png)

### 502: Bad gateway

Reach out to us on [Slack or email](/contact) if you get the **`502 error`** while trying to login to your HUNT Workbench. In such a case we may need to investigate potential causes on our end.

### 504: Gateway Timeout Error

Reach out to us on [Slack or email](/contact) if you get the **`504 error`** while trying to login to your HUNT Workbench. In such a case we may need to investigate potential causes on our end.

Note. This does not apply if you are able to open your HUNT Workbench, but get a _504 error_ when your try to access specific applications, such as _RStudio_ below (see solution below).

### Expired lab certificate

If you were previously able to access your HUNT Workbench and your browser suddenly reports expired/unsafe certificates, e.g.: **`Your connection is not private`** or **`ERR_CERT_DATE_INVALID`**, [contact us](/contact) in your lab channel on Slack or contact us on [email]. We need to sign a new lab certificate and update the service.

![expired_server_cert.png](./images/expired_server_cert.png)

## RStudio

### 500: Internal Server Error

If you are a fast clicker and get to an app before it's initialized in the background you might get the following error message:

```
500: Internal Server Error
Could not start rstudio in time
```

Try reloading the page (**`Ctrl + R`** / **`CMD + R`**) to reconnect with your _RStudio_ session. [Contact us](/contact) if the error message persists.

### 504: Gateway Timeout Error

The **`504 error`** may be shown when you access **`/user/<username>/rstudio/`** but _RStudio_ fails to start. If you were previously able to access your _RStudio_ in HUNT Workbench it is possible that _RStudio_ saved more data in your environment files than it is able to load into memory. 

One potential approach is to (1) first utilize your [workbench terminal](/do-science/hunt-workbench/faq/#terminal) to manually resetting your _RStudio_ settings:

```bash
mv "/mnt/work/workbench/${USER}/.local/share/rstudio" "/mnt/work/workbench/${USER}/.local/share/rstudio-$(date +%Y-%m-%d)"
```

And then (2) [restart your HUNT Workbench environment](/do-science/hunt-workbench/faq/#how-can-i-restart-my-workbench-environment-and-start-from-scratch). If the error still persists, don't hesitate to reach out in your lab channel on Slack or [contact us](/contact) for further assistance.

## MATLAB

### Error - 'matlab' executable not found in PATH

Access to MATLAB requires the application to be installed and activated in your lab.

If you click on the MATLAB icon and the application is missing you will meet a red error box stating that "_matlab executable not found in PATH_". 

Contact your lab coordinator to investigate your licensing options and [contact us](/contact) in Slack or email us with your installation request.

::: tip NTNU users

NTNU holds licenses for all employees and students, so contact us if you want MATLAB in your lab.

:::

### Icons in user interface disappeared

You will need to reset your user settings if the MATLAB icons disappeared and your application is stuck loading. Removing user settings can be done in your [workbench terminal](/do-science/hunt-workbench/faq/#terminal):


<!-- [matlab icons missing](./images/matlab_icons_missing.png) -->


```bash
ls /mnt/work/workbench/$USER/.matlab
rm -r /mnt/work/workbench/$USER/.matlab
```

### Missing toolboxes

You will most likely not be able to install these yourself. [Contact us](/contact) on Slack or email if you need new toolboxes in your MATLAB installation.



## Experience

### Unresponsive environment

An unresponsive or slow HUNT Workbench may be caused by several things. Here's a small checklist to narrow down potential causes:

- Use Google Chrome as your browser. Other browsers don't support all features and might cause potential silent failures.
- Restart your HUNT Workbench environment to start fresh in the case something got hung up. [Click here](/do-science/hunt-workbench/faq/#how-can-i-restart-my-workbench-environment) to see how.
- Check the resource consumption on your **`home`**-machine to ensure that you have available free cpu and memory resources, for example in [htop](/do-science/tools/technical/htop/) (see below).

::: details Check your resources

One way to check your resource consumption is to log into your lab **`home`**-machine and run [htop](/do-science/tools/technical/htop/). Consider to upgrade the machine size in the administer science [Service desk](/administer-science/service-desk/lab-orders/#update-cpu-machine-size) if you are low on free resources.

:::

[Contact us](/contact) for further investigation if none of these works.

Commit message:

oauth state does not match

docs/do-science/hunt-workbench/troubleshooting.md, after:

---
title: Troubleshooting
category: HUNT Workbench
permalink: /do-science/hunt-workbench/troubleshooting
sidebarDepth: 1
description: HUNT Workbench troubleshooting.
---

# HUNT Workbench troubleshooting

**Unfortunately, things don't always work as intended. Here is a collection of known issues that you might encounter in your HUNT Workbench. Contact us if you are still stuck after reading up.**

[[toc]]

::: tip

See our [HUNT Workbench FAQ](/do-science/hunt-workbench/faq/) for general questions, and our [Immediate troubleshooting](/do-science/hunt-workbench/installation/#immediate-troubleshooting) for issues during your first installation. 

:::


## Access

### Unable to access HUNT Workbench applications

If you were previously able to access your applications (such as _RStudio_), and then the application suddenly stopped working, one quick approach is to try restarting your HUNT Workbench environment. Follow this guide to [restart your workbench](/do-science/hunt-workbench/faq/#how-can-i-restart-my-workbench-environment). 

If this do not help, you may have a look at our [FAQ](/do-science/hunt-workbench/faq/) or [Troubleshooting](/do-science/hunt-workbench/troubleshooting/) sections.  [Contact us](/contact) on email or reach out in your lab channel on Slack for further investigation if this does not help.


### 403: Forbidden - Expired client certificate

Your HUNT Workbench certificate is time limited. You will meet the **`403 Forbidden`** message when your certificate expire (example image below). Head over our do science [service desk](/do-science/service-desk#hunt-workbench-reissue) to order a certificate reissue.

![expired_certificate.png](./images/expired_certificate.png)

### 403: Forbidden - oauth state does not match

Try to logout and login again. If logging in does not help, try different browser. We usually recommend Chrome, but here it is important to confirm whether it works in different browser. If this issue appear in all do not hesitate to reach out in your lab channel on Slack and remember to specify the error message `oauth state does not match`.

![oauth_state_does_not_match.png](./images/oauth_state_does_not_match.png)

### 502: Bad gateway

Reach out to us on [Slack or email](/contact) if you get the **`502 error`** while trying to login to your HUNT Workbench. In such a case we may need to investigate potential causes on our end.

### 504: Gateway Timeout Error

Reach out to us on [Slack or email](/contact) if you get the **`504 error`** while trying to login to your HUNT Workbench. In such a case we may need to investigate potential causes on our end.

Note. This does not apply if you are able to open your HUNT Workbench, but get a _504 error_ when your try to access specific applications, such as _RStudio_ below (see solution below).

### Expired lab certificate

If you were previously able to access your HUNT Workbench and your browser suddenly reports expired/unsafe certificates, e.g.: **`Your connection is not private`** or **`ERR_CERT_DATE_INVALID`**, [contact us](/contact) in your lab channel on Slack or contact us on [email]. We need to sign a new lab certificate and update the service.

![expired_server_cert.png](./images/expired_server_cert.png)

## RStudio

### 500: Internal Server Error

If you are a fast clicker and get to an app before it's initialized in the background you might get the following error message:

```
500: Internal Server Error
Could not start rstudio in time
```

Try reloading the page (**`Ctrl + R`** / **`CMD + R`**) to reconnect with your _RStudio_ session. [Contact us](/contact) if the error message persists.

### 504: Gateway Timeout Error

The **`504 error`** may be shown when you access **`/user/<username>/rstudio/`** but _RStudio_ fails to start. If you were previously able to access your _RStudio_ in HUNT Workbench it is possible that _RStudio_ saved more data in your environment files than it is able to load into memory. 

One potential approach is to (1) first utilize your [workbench terminal](/do-science/hunt-workbench/faq/#terminal) to manually resetting your _RStudio_ settings:

```bash
mv "/mnt/work/workbench/${USER}/.local/share/rstudio" "/mnt/work/workbench/${USER}/.local/share/rstudio-$(date +%Y-%m-%d)"
```

And then (2) [restart your HUNT Workbench environment](/do-science/hunt-workbench/faq/#how-can-i-restart-my-workbench-environment-and-start-from-scratch). If the error still persists, don't hesitate to reach out in your lab channel on Slack or [contact us](/contact) for further assistance.

## MATLAB

### Error - 'matlab' executable not found in PATH

Access to MATLAB requires the application to be installed and activated in your lab.

If you click on the MATLAB icon and the application is missing you will meet a red error box stating that "_matlab executable not found in PATH_". 

Contact your lab coordinator to investigate your licensing options and [contact us](/contact) in Slack or email us with your installation request.

::: tip NTNU users

NTNU holds licenses for all employees and students, so contact us if you want MATLAB in your lab.

:::

### Icons in user interface disappeared

You will need to reset your user settings if the MATLAB icons disappeared and your application is stuck loading. Removing user settings can be done in your [workbench terminal](/do-science/hunt-workbench/faq/#terminal):


<!-- [matlab icons missing](./images/matlab_icons_missing.png) -->


```bash
ls /mnt/work/workbench/$USER/.matlab
rm -r /mnt/work/workbench/$USER/.matlab
```

### Missing toolboxes

You will most likely not be able to install these yourself. [Contact us](/contact) on Slack or email if you need new toolboxes in your MATLAB installation.



## Experience

### Unresponsive environment

An unresponsive or slow HUNT Workbench may be caused by several things. Here's a small checklist to narrow down potential causes:

- Use Google Chrome as your browser. Other browsers don't support all features and might cause potential silent failures.
- Restart your HUNT Workbench environment to start fresh in the case something got hung up. [Click here](/do-science/hunt-workbench/faq/#how-can-i-restart-my-workbench-environment) to see how.
- Check the resource consumption on your **`home`**-machine to ensure that you have available free cpu and memory resources, for example in [htop](/do-science/tools/technical/htop/) (see below).

::: details Check your resources

One way to check your resource consumption is to log into your lab **`home`**-machine and run [htop](/do-science/tools/technical/htop/). Consider to upgrade the machine size in the administer science [Service desk](/administer-science/service-desk/lab-orders/#update-cpu-machine-size) if you are low on free resources.

:::

[Contact us](/contact) for further investigation if none of these works.
