docs/administer-science/get-going/data-space.md, before:

---
title: Data space
category: HUNT Cloud
permalink: /coordination/get-going/data-space
sidebarDepth: 1
description: This page helps you to get going with administrative agreements in HUNT Cloud.
---

# Get going with your data space

**This guide aims to describe the steps to get you going with your first data space in HUNT Cloud.**

Data spaces in HUNT Cloud are scientific units such as centers and research groups that mange and coordinate scientific activities across one or many labs. 

[[toc]]

Data spaces are controlled in data space orders that specify subscription levels for available resources in labs and identify cross-lab coordinators. Read more abou the data space orders in our [agreement section](/administer-science/agreements/overview/#data-space-order).

### 1. Brand your data space

We recommend that you invest some time to identify a short and powerful name for your data space. Name recognition may help strengthen your scientific brand when you communicate with colleagues, collaborators and other interested parties. We will use this name in communication with your team and when we communicate with your department and faculty. 

### 2. Identify your coordinator team

High-trust and high-paced science needs smooth and seamless coordination to fly. Therefore, this is the step to list your team of coordinators for five key areas: compliance, data, technical, knowledge and finance. 

[Click here](/administer-science/roles/) to read more about the different roles. Your coordinator team will be the main points of contacts for both your scientists and us. 

### 3. Decide your data space subscription level

You have the option to choose three different data space subscription levels. Our [services overview](/administer-science/services/overview/#data-space) provides a summary of different features, the [services specifications](/administer-science/services/specifications/) holds the detailed description, and the [price list](/administer-science/prices/pricelist/) specify the yearly cost. 

[Contact us](/contact) if you are unsure which subscription level that may provide the best fit for your scientific activities.

### 4. Download and complete the data space order

- Download the "[Data space order](/administer-science/agreements/downloads/#data-space-order)" on your local machine (right click on the link and select "Save Link As...")
- Open the PDF on your local machine and (i) open in an PDF-editor and complete the fields digitally, or (ii) print on paper and complete the fields by hand. The "Clarification of the form fields" includes a field by field descriptions of the order.
- Add your own signature, save the PDF and forward the document to your services center leader for co-signature. 
- [Contact us](/contact) if you need help to identify the service center leader for your organization.

### 5. Download and complete the invoice profile

- Download the "[Invoice profile](/administer-science/agreements/downloads/#invoice-profile)" on your local machine (right click on the link and select "Save Link As...")
- Open the PDF on your local machine and (i) open in an PDF-editor and complete the fields digitally, or (ii) print on paper and complete the fields by hand. The "Clarification of the form fields" includes a field by field descriptions of the profile.
- Add your own signature, save the PDF. 

### 6. Place your data space order

Head over to our service desk and place your data space order.

::: tip Service desk

[Click here to order your data space](/govern-science/service-desk/service-center-orders.html#new-data-space)

:::

- (1) Attach the PDF-file of the data space order that includes both your and your service center leaders signature.
- (2) Attach the PDF-file of the signed Invoice profile.

Your data space order is now signed, sealed and delivered. 

### 7. Plan your lab portfolio

With your brand new data space in place, now is the time to recap your tactics on how to manage data and teams to provide prosperous environments in sync with your scientific vision. Digital laboratories are great at both bringing teams together and to separate activities when needed. 

**One or several labs?**

Reasons to keep your activities together may be unity, simplicity, and cost. Reasons to segregate data and/or activities may be requirements from ethical committees and privacy officers, to limit data access between teams, data safety and reliability, separation of cost or governance, specify tools or activities, provide freedom for early-investigators on your team to develop independence and so forth.

[Contact us ](/contact) if you think we can assist in your evaluation, and keep in mind that you can add more labs later. 


Once you have your plan crafted, head our to our [lab guide](/administer-science/get-going/lab/) to get going with your first lab under your data space.

Commit message:

update from coordinator to administrator wording for data spaces

docs/administer-science/get-going/data-space.md, after:

---
title: Data space
category: HUNT Cloud
permalink: /administer-science/get-going/data-space
sidebarDepth: 1
description: This page helps you to get going with administrative agreements in HUNT Cloud.
---

# Get going with your data space

**This guide aims to describe the steps to get you going with your first data space in HUNT Cloud.**

Data spaces in HUNT Cloud are scientific units such as centers and research groups that mange and administer scientific activities across one to many labs. 

[[toc]]

Data spaces are controlled in data space orders that specify subscription levels for available resources in labs and identify cross-lab administrators. Read more abou the data space orders in our [agreement section](/administer-science/agreements/overview/#data-space-order).

### 1. Brand your data space

We recommend that you invest some time to identify a short and powerful name for your data space. Name recognition may help strengthen your scientific brand when you communicate with colleagues, collaborators and other interested parties. We will use this name in communication with your team and when we communicate with your department and faculty. 

### 2. Identify your administrator team

High-trust and high-paced science needs smooth and seamless administration to fly. Therefore, this is the step to list your team of administrators for five key areas: compliance, data, technical, knowledge and finance. 

[Click here](/administer-science/roles/) to read more about the different roles. Your administrator team will be the main points of contacts for both your scientists and us. 

### 3. Decide your data space subscription level

You have the option to choose three different data space subscription levels. Our [services overview](/administer-science/services/overview/#data-space) provides a summary of different features, the [services specifications](/administer-science/services/specifications/) holds the detailed description, and the [price list](/administer-science/prices/pricelist/) specify the yearly cost. 

[Contact us](/contact) if you are unsure which subscription level that may provide the best fit for your scientific activities.

### 4. Download and complete the data space order

- Download the "[Data space order](/administer-science/agreements/downloads/#data-space-order)" on your local machine (right click on the link and select "Save Link As...")
- Open the PDF on your local machine and (i) open in an PDF-editor and complete the fields digitally, or (ii) print on paper and complete the fields by hand. The "Clarification of the form fields" includes a field by field descriptions of the order.
- Add your own signature, save the PDF and forward the document to your services center leader for co-signature. 
- [Contact us](/contact) if you need help to identify the service center leader for your organization.

### 5. Download and complete the invoice profile

- Download the "[Invoice profile](/administer-science/agreements/downloads/#invoice-profile)" on your local machine (right click on the link and select "Save Link As...")
- Open the PDF on your local machine and (i) open in an PDF-editor and complete the fields digitally, or (ii) print on paper and complete the fields by hand. The "Clarification of the form fields" includes a field by field descriptions of the profile.
- Add your own signature, save the PDF. 

### 6. Place your data space order

Head over to our service desk and place your data space order.

::: tip Service desk

[Click here to order your data space](/govern-science/service-desk/service-center-orders.html#new-data-space)

:::

- (1) Attach the PDF-file of the data space order that includes both your and your service center leaders signature.
- (2) Attach the PDF-file of the signed Invoice profile.

Your data space order is now signed, sealed and delivered. 

### 7. Plan your lab portfolio

With your brand new data space in place, now is the time to recap your tactics on how to manage data and teams to provide prosperous environments in sync with your scientific vision. Digital laboratories are great at both bringing teams together and to separate activities when needed. 

**One or several labs?**

Reasons to keep your activities together may be unity, simplicity, and cost. Reasons to segregate data and/or activities may be requirements from ethical committees and privacy officers, to limit data access between teams, data safety and reliability, separation of cost or governance, specify tools or activities, provide freedom for early-investigators on your team to develop independence and so forth.

[Contact us ](/contact) if you think we can assist in your evaluation, and keep in mind that you can add more labs later. 


Once you have your plan crafted, head our to our [lab guide](/administer-science/get-going/lab/) to get going with your first lab under your data space.
