docs/coordination/risk/README.md, before:

---
title: Risk management
category: HUNT Cloud
permalink: /riskmanagement
sidebarDepth: 1
description: This page list risk management resources for HUNT Cloud.
---

# Risk management

**This page list risk management resources for HUNT Cloud with the aim to assist security and privacy officers, compliance coordinators in data spaces and lab coordinators on their quest to document, assess and evaluate security and privacy risks for their scientific endevours in HUNT Cloud.** 

[[toc]]


## Responsibilities

First, it is our responsibility to provide information activities in HUNT Cloud so you can identify and evaluate security and privacy risks for your scientific work. 

It is your responsibility to assess, document and evaluate this information in your own scientific context, and to inform your "risk owner" about any remaining risks (residual risks) that you identified. 

It is your risk owner's responsibility to evaluate these residual risks and accept the risks or to require risk reduction before your use the evaluated services.

::: tip Residual risk

It is impossible to eliminate all risks. Thus, there will often be some kind of unwanted risk left after the security and privacy controls are evaluated. This is often called "*residual risk*". Such residual risk needs to be reduced or accepted. We call the individual that have the authority to accept such residual risks on behalf of your data and/or organization "risk owner".

::: 


## Assessments

### Data Protection Impact Assessment (DPIA)

The data processing in your labs may require a Data Protection Impact Assessments (DPIA) prior to the initiation of scientific activities (GDPR Article 35). See the [resources](/riskmanagement/#resources) to get going, and [contact us](/contact) for review of written text. We are happy to assist compliance coordinators with this work. 

### Risk assessment reports (RAR)

Your organization may request risk assessments of your activities when it comes to information security and/or privacy ("ROS-analyse" in Norwegian). We are happy to assist with information and explanations of our system and configurations. See the [resources](/riskmanagement/#resources) for our initial information, and [contact us](/contact) if you need additional clarifications. 

## Audits

Data controllers are welcome to check that our systems and services are implemented and operated as stated (audits), both with on-screen and physical sessions.

Compliance coordinators in data spaces are also more than welcome to participate in our regular internal audit sessions for educational purposes. 

We are audited by an independent auditor as part of our ISO certificates yearly for each certificate. The certificates from these audits are available on our [certificates](/certificates/) page.

## Resources

Here is a list of our public security and privacy information that may support your risk assessments:

- [Security and privacy policies](/policies). These are the documents that we build our security and privacy framework on. "Security and privacy policies" provides a list of individual security controls that is intended to be implemented in HUNT Cloud.
- [Statement of applicability](/certificates/) (SoA). This is the document that states the implementation status of the individual security and privacy controls specified in our policy documents. Thus, this is what we say we have done and such often a good starting point for audits that aim to control if we actually have done what we state we have done. 
- [ISO certificates](/certificates/). The ISO certificates provides confirmation from a third-party that we comply with the requirements in the respective ISO standards as stated in our Statement of applicability.
- [Current risks and audit status](/tingweek/#reports). We report overall risks as we see them three time per year in our Ting report under the "Risk factors" chapter. The report do also provide a summary of relevant laws and regulations and the results of our audit program under the "External and internal controls" chapter. 
- [Services specifications](/services/specifications/). This document specify responsibilities and relevant security measures for individual services. The document is formally incorporated as an appendix to your [services agreement](agreements/overview/#services-agreement).

[Contact us](/contact) if you need additional information for your risk assessment.

## FAQ

### Do you participate in risk assessment meetings? 

Yes. We prioritize risk assessment meetings with data controllers to assist with information and clarifications. For  DPIAs and RARs in data spaces and labs, we will be able to respond quicker if we can comment on written drafts.

### Do you have standardized text that I can use? 

No. You will need to make your own assessment of risks that you find relevant in your specific scientific context. When that is said, we are happy to share and discuss potential scenarios, threats and assessments.

### Do you allow third-party audits? 

Yes. You may hire external companies to conduct audits of our systems and services on your behalf. 

### Do you allow technical security tests? 

Yes. You will need written approval of such testing *prior* to initiation. [Contact us](/contact) for arrangements and agreements.

Commit message:

iso references for risk management

docs/coordination/risk/README.md, after:

---
title: Risk management
category: HUNT Cloud
permalink: /riskmanagement
sidebarDepth: 1
description: This page list risk management resources for HUNT Cloud.
---

# Risk management

**This page list risk management resources for HUNT Cloud with the aim to assist security and privacy officers, compliance coordinators in data spaces and lab coordinators on their quest to document, assess and evaluate security and privacy risks for their scientific endevours in HUNT Cloud.** 

[[toc]]


## Responsibilities

First, it is our responsibility to provide information activities in HUNT Cloud so you can identify and evaluate security and privacy risks for your scientific work. 

It is your responsibility to assess, document and evaluate this information in your own scientific context, and to inform your "risk owner" about any remaining risks (residual risks) that you identified. 

It is your risk owner's responsibility to evaluate these residual risks and accept the risks or to require risk reduction before your use the evaluated services.

::: tip Residual risk

It is impossible to eliminate all risks. Thus, there will often be some kind of unwanted risk left after the security and privacy controls are evaluated. This is often called "*residual risk*". Such residual risk needs to be reduced or accepted. We call the individual that have the authority to accept such residual risks on behalf of your data and/or organization "risk owner".

::: 


## Assessments

### Data Protection Impact Assessment (DPIA)

The data processing in your labs may require a Data Protection Impact Assessments (DPIA) prior to the initiation of scientific activities (GDPR Article 35). See the [resources](/riskmanagement/#resources) to get going, and [contact us](/contact) for review of written text. We are happy to assist compliance coordinators with this work. 

### Risk assessment reports (RAR)

Your organization may request risk assessments of your activities when it comes to information security and/or privacy ("ROS-analyse" in Norwegian). We are happy to assist with information and explanations of our system and configurations. See the [resources](/riskmanagement/#resources) for our initial information, and [contact us](/contact) if you need additional clarifications. 

## Audits

We encourage data controllers to check that our systems and services are implemented and operated as stated. Both on-screen and physical audits can be arranged.

Compliance coordinators in data spaces are welcome to participate in our regular internal audit sessions for educational purposes. 

We are audited by an independent auditor as part of our ISO certificates yearly for each certificate. The certificates from these audits are available on our [certificates](/certificates/) page.

## Framework

We build our risk management on the guidelines from [ISO 31000 - Risk management](https://www.iso.org/iso-31000-risk-management.html) and [ISO 27005 - Information security risk management](https://www.iso.org/standard/75281.html). 

## Resources

Here is a list of our public security and privacy information that may support your risk assessments:

- [Security and privacy policies](/policies). These are the documents that we build our security and privacy framework on. "Security and privacy policies" provides a list of individual security controls that is intended to be implemented in HUNT Cloud.
- [Statement of applicability](/certificates/) (SoA). This is the document that states the implementation status of the individual security and privacy controls specified in our policy documents. Thus, this is what we say we have done and such often a good starting point for audits that aim to control if we actually have done what we state we have done. 
- [ISO certificates](/certificates/). The ISO certificates provides confirmation from a third-party that we comply with the requirements in the respective ISO standards as stated in our Statement of applicability.
- [Current risks and audit status](/tingweek/#reports). We report overall risks as we see them three time per year in our Ting report under the "Risk factors" chapter. The report do also provide a summary of relevant laws and regulations and the results of our audit program under the "External and internal controls" chapter. 
- [Services specifications](/services/specifications/). This document specify responsibilities and relevant security measures for individual services. The document is formally incorporated as an appendix to your [services agreement](agreements/overview/#services-agreement).

[Contact us](/contact) if you need additional information for your risk assessment.

## FAQ

#### Do you participate in risk assessment meetings? 

Yes. We prioritize risk assessment meetings with data controllers to assist with information and clarifications. For  DPIAs and RARs in data spaces and labs, we will be able to respond quicker if we can comment on written drafts.

#### Do you have standardized text that I can use? 

No. You will need to make your own assessment of risks that you find relevant in your specific scientific context. When that is said, we are happy to share and discuss potential scenarios, threats and assessments.

#### Do you allow third-party audits? 

Yes. You may hire external companies to conduct audits of our systems and services on your behalf. 

#### Do you allow technical security tests? 

Yes. You will need written approval of such testing *prior* to initiation. [Contact us](/contact) for arrangements and agreements.
