docs/govern-science/policies/README.md, before:

---
title: Policies
category: Govern science
permalink: /govern-science/policies
sidebarDepth: 0
description: This page list security and privacy policies for HUNT Cloud.
---

# Policies

**The following security and privacy policies governs activities in HUNT Cloud.** 

These policies are establish to ensure compliance with international standards for privacy and security, laws, regulations and legal requirements set forth in data processor agreements.

::: tip Frequently asked questions

See our [Policies FAQ](/govern-science/policies/faq/) for commonly asked questions regarding our security and privacy policies.

:::

## Security and privacy management policy

This document state our overarching information security and privacy management policy. We build our security and privacy framework from this policy.

[HUNT Cloud Security And Privacy Management Policy](https://assets.hdc.ntnu.no/assets/policies/hunt-cloud-security-and-privacy-management-policy.pdf)(PDF)


## Security and privacy policies

This document outlines our individual information security and privacy policies. Collectively, these policies provides the framework that we use to protect technologies and data in HUNT Cloud. 

[HUNT Cloud Security And Privacy Policies](https://assets.hdc.ntnu.no/assets/policies/hunt-cloud-security-and-privacy-policies.pdf)(PDF)

Commit message:

quality policy included under governance

docs/govern-science/policies/README.md, after:

---
title: Policies
category: Govern science
permalink: /govern-science/policies
sidebarDepth: 0
description: This page list security and privacy policies for HUNT Cloud.
---

# Policies

**The following quality, security and privacy policies governs activities in HUNT Cloud.** 

[[toc]]

These policies are establish to ensure predictable services that comply with international standards for quality, privacy and security, as well as laws, regulations and legal requirements set forth in data agreements.


## Quality policy

This document state our overarching quality management policy. We build our quality framework to ensure predictable services from this policy.

[HUNT Cloud Quality Policy](https://assets.hdc.ntnu.no/assets/policies/hunt-cloud-quality-policy.pdf)(PDF)

## Security and privacy management policy

This document state our overarching information security and privacy management policy. We build our security and privacy framework from this policy.

[HUNT Cloud Security And Privacy Management Policy](https://assets.hdc.ntnu.no/assets/policies/hunt-cloud-security-and-privacy-management-policy.pdf)(PDF)


## Security and privacy policies

This document outlines our individual information security and privacy policies. Collectively, these policies provides the framework that we use to protect technologies and data in HUNT Cloud. 

[HUNT Cloud Security And Privacy Policies](https://assets.hdc.ntnu.no/assets/policies/hunt-cloud-security-and-privacy-policies.pdf)(PDF)
