docs/working-in-your-lab/technical-tools/mobaxterm.md, before:

---
title: MobaXterm
category: Technical tools
permalink: /working-in-your-lab/technical-tools/mobaxterm
sidebarDepth: 1
description: Usage guide for MobaXterm.
---

# MobaXterm

**[MobaXterm](https://mobaxterm.mobatek.net/) is an application that simplifies SSH connections to your lab from your local Windows machine.**

[[toc]]

::: warning Requirements

(1) A working SSH connection to both entry and home as described in the [How To Connect To Your Lab](/getting-started/) guide.

(2) The Moba file with credentials and configuration will be handy to ease the installation. [Contact us](/contact) for a new file if you need one.

Without these it will be hard to ensure a smooth MobaXterm configuration.

<!-- Make sure Putty is installed as shown in the guide above, before you use MobaXterm. -->

:::

## 1. How to install

::: tip
Lab users from NTNU can install MobaXterm using the software center.
:::

- Download the `Home edition (installer edition)` from [mobaxterm.mobatek.net](https://mobaxterm.mobatek.net/download.html):
- Unzip the file and install the software

## 2. Configure Mobagent

2.1 Start MobaXterm and open Settings:

![mobaxterm_settings](./images/mobaxterm_settings.png)

2.2 Choose SSH tab and make sure that option `Use internal SSH agent "Mobagent"` is checked. Then click OK to save the settings.

![mobaxterm_allow_mobagent](./images/mobaxterm_allow_mobagent.png)

<!--
2.3 After clicking on button `Show keys currently loaded in MobAgent` you might be asked to start MobAgent.
Confirm by clicking Yes:

![mobaxterm_start_mobagent](./images/mobaxterm_start_mobagent.png)

2.4 If you already have any ssh key you could see them in the list. If not we will make them later in step 3.
You can click on Close button.

![mobaxterm_mobagent_keys](./images/mobaxterm_mobagent_keys.png) -->

2.3 If you are asked to confirm restart of MobaXterm click `Yes` to confirm.

![mobaxterm_restart_settings](./images/mobaxterm_restart_settings.png)

## 3. Generating SSH Key

In case you have not used SSH keys before and you need to generate one, on Windows you can do so in MobaXterm using Local terminal

### 3.1 Open Local terminal

Clicking on Local terminal button opens MobaXterm command line:

![Main View - Local terminal](./images/mobaxterm_main-local_terminal.png)

### 3.2 Generate SSH key in local terminal

If you opened local terminal, you should see similar window:

![Local terminal](./images/mobaxterm_local_terminal.png)

Check if you already have ssh keys from before by running this command:

```bash
cat "${USERPROFILE}/.ssh/id_rsa.pub"
```

If previous command printed error message (No such file or directory) or there was no output it means that you probably have not created your ssh key yet and you can continue with the next steps.

Before creating SSH key we make sure that your .ssh directory exists:

```bash
mkdir -p "${USERPROFILE}/.ssh"
```

Now we can create SSH key:

```bash
ssh-keygen -b 4096 -t rsa -f "${USERPROFILE}/.ssh/id_rsa" -q -N ""
```

### 3.3 Uploading new SSH key

To be able to use the key it needs to be uploaded with `ssh-copy-id`.
You will be asked to type in your SSH password that you made during the lab installation.

```bash
ssh-copy-id -i "${USERPROFILE}/.ssh/id_rsa.pub" username@entry-IP
```

Remember to replace `username` with your username, and `entry-IP` with IP address of your lab that
is included in your `ssh-config.txt` file (format: `10.42.X.Y`). Example: `joe-tester@10.42.X.Y`.

If you get asked to save the password, refuse by clicking on `No` to make sure that MobaXterm
will authenticate with SSH keys instead of passwords.

### 3.4 Add SSH key into Mobagent

Check the list of Mobagent SSH keys and make sure that SSH key (`id_rsa` file) is included. If MobaXterm included the new key automatically, you can continue to the next step:

![mobaxterm_mobagent_keys](./images/mobaxterm_mobagent_add_key.png)

## 4. Connect

We usually ship preconfigured Moba file with credentials.
If you have not opened it, you can open it now and MobaXterm will pick up your lab session.

![Connect](./images/mobaxterm_step5.png)

With a little bit of luck, you should now be able to connect directly from your client computer to your home node in your lab.

::: tip Request a new Moba file

[Contact us](/contact) for a new Moba file with credentials and configuration if you need one.

:::

## Troubleshooting

#### Check SSH keys in session configuration

::: details More information

- Right click on the session that you want to edit and choose option `Edit session`.
  ![mobaxterm_edit-session](./images/mobaxterm_edit-session.png)
- Assure `SSH` option under the `Session settings` is selected.
- In **Advanced SSH settings** make sure that private key option is checked. Then select the path to SSH key file (`id_rsa`).
  ![Step 1](./images/mobaxterm_step1.png)
- Under `Network settings`, click on `Connect through SSH gateway (jump host)`
  ![Step 2](./images/mobaxterm_step2.png)
- Check `Use SSH key` option and select the path to SSH key file (`id_rsa`).
  ![Step 3](./images/mobaxterm_step3.png)
- Confirm session settings by clicking `OK`.

:::

#### Agent refused operation

::: details More information

If you see the error message saying: `Agent refused operation` you need to install Putty.

![agent-refused-operation](./images/mobaxterm_ssh-agent-refused-operation.png)

Once Putty is installed, make sure that MobaXterm is closed and started Pageant. Pageant is part of Putty installation.

![putty_pageant](./images/putty_pageant.png)

Once Pageant is running, you can start MobaXterm.

:::

#### Configure custom SSH config

::: details More information

This part might be needed if you plan to use SSH tunnel. It is not part of recommended workflow.

To setup ssh config to be used in local terminal of MobaXterm use:

```
cat <<-EOF > /home/mobaxterm/.ssh/config

Paste content of your ssh-config.txt here

EOF
```

:::


#### Configure custom session

::: details More information

- Open MobaXterm
- Select a new session and click on the `SSH` image on the `Session settings`.
- In **Basic SSH settings**, add `10.5.5.12` as `Remote host` and type your username into `Specify username` field. Under **Advanced SSH settings** uncheck `X11-forwarding` if not used. Select ssh (private) key file if you already have one.
  ![Step 1](./images/mobaxterm_step1.png "MobaXterm - Step 1")
- Under `Network settings`, click on `Connect through SSH gateway (jump host)`
  ![Step 2](./images/mobaxterm_step2.png "MobaXterm - Step 2")
- Add your labs IP-address to the `Gateway SSH server` and your user name to the `User` field (the 10.42.-address from the ssh-config). Select ssh (private) key file if you already have one. Click OK to confirm SSH jump host.
  ![Step 3](./images/mobaxterm_step3.png "MobaXterm - Step 3")
- In **Bookmark settings**, Name your lab session. Click OK to confirm Session settings.
  ![Step 4](./images/mobaxterm_step4.png "MobaXterm - Step 4")

:::

Commit message:

mobaxterm link to service desk for configuration file

docs/working-in-your-lab/technical-tools/mobaxterm.md, after:

---
title: MobaXterm
category: Technical tools
permalink: /working-in-your-lab/technical-tools/mobaxterm
sidebarDepth: 1
description: Usage guide for MobaXterm.
---

# MobaXterm

**[MobaXterm](https://mobaxterm.mobatek.net/) is an application that simplifies SSH connections to your lab from your local Windows machine.**

[[toc]]

::: warning Requirements

(1) A working SSH connection to both entry and home as described in the [How To Connect To Your Lab](/getting-started/) guide.

(2) The MobaXterm configuration file to simplify your setup. You can order a new one in the [service desk](/service-desk/user-orders/#mobaxterm-configuration-file).

Without these it will be hard to ensure a smooth MobaXterm configuration.

:::

## 1. How to install

::: tip
Lab users from NTNU can install MobaXterm using the software center.
:::

- Download the `Home edition (installer edition)` from [mobaxterm.mobatek.net](https://mobaxterm.mobatek.net/download.html):
- Unzip the file and install the software

## 2. Configure Mobagent

2.1 Start MobaXterm and open Settings:

![mobaxterm_settings](./images/mobaxterm_settings.png)

2.2 Choose SSH tab and make sure that option `Use internal SSH agent "Mobagent"` is checked. Then click OK to save the settings.

![mobaxterm_allow_mobagent](./images/mobaxterm_allow_mobagent.png)

2.3 If you are asked to confirm restart of MobaXterm click `Yes` to confirm.

![mobaxterm_restart_settings](./images/mobaxterm_restart_settings.png)

## 3. Generating SSH Key

In case you have not used SSH keys before and you need to generate one, on Windows you can do so in MobaXterm using Local terminal

### 3.1 Open Local terminal

Clicking on Local terminal button opens MobaXterm command line:

![Main View - Local terminal](./images/mobaxterm_main-local_terminal.png)

### 3.2 Generate SSH key in local terminal

If you opened local terminal, you should see similar window:

![Local terminal](./images/mobaxterm_local_terminal.png)

Check if you already have ssh keys from before by running this command:

```bash
cat "${USERPROFILE}/.ssh/id_rsa.pub"
```

If previous command printed error message (No such file or directory) or there was no output it means that you probably have not created your ssh key yet and you can continue with the next steps.

Before creating SSH key we make sure that your .ssh directory exists:

```bash
mkdir -p "${USERPROFILE}/.ssh"
```

Now we can create SSH key:

```bash
ssh-keygen -b 4096 -t rsa -f "${USERPROFILE}/.ssh/id_rsa" -q -N ""
```

### 3.3 Uploading new SSH key

To be able to use the key it needs to be uploaded with `ssh-copy-id`.
You will be asked to type in your SSH password that you made during the lab installation.

```bash
ssh-copy-id -i "${USERPROFILE}/.ssh/id_rsa.pub" username@entry-IP
```

Remember to replace `username` with your username, and `entry-IP` with IP address of your lab that
is included in your `ssh-config.txt` file (format: `10.42.X.Y`). Example: `joe-tester@10.42.X.Y`.

If you get asked to save the password, refuse by clicking on `No` to make sure that MobaXterm
will authenticate with SSH keys instead of passwords.

### 3.4 Add SSH key into Mobagent

Check the list of Mobagent SSH keys and make sure that SSH key (`id_rsa` file) is included. If MobaXterm included the new key automatically, you can continue to the next step:

![mobaxterm_mobagent_keys](./images/mobaxterm_mobagent_add_key.png)

## 4. Connect

We usually ship preconfigured Moba file with credentials.
If you have not opened it, you can open it now and MobaXterm will pick up your lab session.

![Connect](./images/mobaxterm_step5.png)

With a little bit of luck, you should now be able to connect directly from your client computer to your home node in your lab.

::: tip Request a new Moba file

[Contact us](/contact) for a new Moba file with credentials and configuration if you need one.

:::

## Troubleshooting

#### Check SSH keys in session configuration

::: details More information

- Right click on the session that you want to edit and choose option `Edit session`.
  ![mobaxterm_edit-session](./images/mobaxterm_edit-session.png)
- Assure `SSH` option under the `Session settings` is selected.
- In **Advanced SSH settings** make sure that private key option is checked. Then select the path to SSH key file (`id_rsa`).
  ![Step 1](./images/mobaxterm_step1.png)
- Under `Network settings`, click on `Connect through SSH gateway (jump host)`
  ![Step 2](./images/mobaxterm_step2.png)
- Check `Use SSH key` option and select the path to SSH key file (`id_rsa`).
  ![Step 3](./images/mobaxterm_step3.png)
- Confirm session settings by clicking `OK`.

:::

#### Agent refused operation

::: details More information

If you see the error message saying: `Agent refused operation` you need to install Putty.

![agent-refused-operation](./images/mobaxterm_ssh-agent-refused-operation.png)

Once Putty is installed, make sure that MobaXterm is closed and started Pageant. Pageant is part of Putty installation.

![putty_pageant](./images/putty_pageant.png)

Once Pageant is running, you can start MobaXterm.

:::

#### Configure custom SSH config

::: details More information

This part might be needed if you plan to use SSH tunnel. It is not part of recommended workflow.

To setup ssh config to be used in local terminal of MobaXterm use:

```
cat <<-EOF > /home/mobaxterm/.ssh/config

Paste content of your ssh-config.txt here

EOF
```

:::


#### Configure custom session

::: details More information

- Open MobaXterm
- Select a new session and click on the `SSH` image on the `Session settings`.
- In **Basic SSH settings**, add `10.5.5.12` as `Remote host` and type your username into `Specify username` field. Under **Advanced SSH settings** uncheck `X11-forwarding` if not used. Select ssh (private) key file if you already have one.
  ![Step 1](./images/mobaxterm_step1.png "MobaXterm - Step 1")
- Under `Network settings`, click on `Connect through SSH gateway (jump host)`
  ![Step 2](./images/mobaxterm_step2.png "MobaXterm - Step 2")
- Add your labs IP-address to the `Gateway SSH server` and your user name to the `User` field (the 10.42.-address from the ssh-config). Select ssh (private) key file if you already have one. Click OK to confirm SSH jump host.
  ![Step 3](./images/mobaxterm_step3.png "MobaXterm - Step 3")
- In **Bookmark settings**, Name your lab session. Click OK to confirm Session settings.
  ![Step 4](./images/mobaxterm_step4.png "MobaXterm - Step 4")

:::
