docs/governance/tingweek.md, before:

---
title: Ting week
category: HUNT Cloud
permalink: /tingweek
sidebarDepth: 1
description: This page list information and questions about our ting weeks.
---

# Ting week

**We appoint time three times per year to meet for information, feedback and discussions on how to develop the services in HUNT Cloud to better elevate science. We call these gatherings Tings.** 

We arrange a layered set of Tings for distinct groups in our community. The meetings are spread out over one week in the winter, spring and autumn. We call these weeks "Ting weeks".


[[toc]]



## Reports

The intent of the Ting report is to give you the opportunity to read up on **what** we are doing at HUNT Cloud, and a little bit on **why** we do it. All so we can meet at the tings and have informed discussions on how to best elevate data for a better world!

The reports include a letter with reflections from the last Ting period as well as chapters with business description, risk factors, description of properties, and external and internal controls. 

- [Ting report #4 (2021-10)](https://assets.hdc.ntnu.no/assets/tingweek/hunt-cloud-tingweek4-report.pdf)
- [Ting report #3 (2021-05)](https://assets.hdc.ntnu.no/assets/tingweek/hunt-cloud-tingweek3-report.pdf)
- [Ting report #2 (2021-02)](https://assets.hdc.ntnu.no/assets/tingweek/hunt-cloud-tingweek2-report.pdf)
- [Ting report #1 (2020-10)](https://assets.hdc.ntnu.no/assets/tingweek/hunt-cloud-tingweek1-report.pdf)



## Tings

We have implemented a layered Ting structure to elevate voices and collective knowledge from distinct groups within the community. As of today, we appoint time for four different Tings that meet during the Ting weeks:

![Tingweek tings](./images/tingweek-tings.png)

### Lab ting

This is our allting that focuses on the user experience in our **lab service**. All users are invited for information, feedback and discussions on all aspects of existing, planned and future services.

### Coordinator ting

This is the Ting where we appoint time to discuss scientific coordination as a premise to make science fly. The discussions including topics related to users experinces for our **data space service**, such as compliance, data management, technical coordination, knowledge management and financial aspedts.

### Enterprise ting

This is the Ting where we appoint time to meet with the community that are affiliated with **private institutions**. We have a special focus on issues that is relevant for small and medium sized enterprises (SMEs) and larger contract research non-profit institutions.

### Lagtun

Lagtun is the Ting where we appoint time for cross-organizational discussions among **data controllers, service centers and large data spaces** in the community. This Ting gives direct advice on our strategic and tactical development to the HUNT Cloud management. [Read more](/tingweek/lagtun/).



## Memberships

Memberships to the Tings are derived from the following registered roles in contractual agreements with HUNT Cloud:

| Ting | Invitations |
| - | - | 
| **Lab ting** | All active lab users. |
| **Coordinator ting** | All coordinators in active labs and data spaces. |
| **Enterprise ting** | All active users registered or associated with a private enterprise. |
| **Lagtun** | Data controllers, service centers and data spaces on the BLUE subscription level ([read more](/tingweek/lagtun/#representatives)). |


## Schedule 

![Ting schedule year](./images/tingweek-schedule-year.png)

Ting weeks are scheduled over one week in the winter, spring and autumn: (i) The winter Ting is usually scheduled mid February; (ii) The spring Ting in late May or early June; and (iii ) the autumn Ting in the second half of October. 

![Ting schedule days](./images/tingweek-schedule-days.png)

Individual Tings are scheduled over the week on the same time slots. The current scheule is as follows: Lab tings are held on Tuesdays 2-4 pm CET, Coordinator tings on Wednesdays 9-11 am CET, Enterprise tings on Wednesdays 1-3 pm CET and Lagtun on Thursdays 9-11 am CET.



## Dates and agendas

#### Ting week #6 (2022-05)

- **Lab ting**: Tuesday 31 May 2022 - 2 to 4 p.m. CET
- **Coordinator ting**: Wednesday 1 June 2022 - 9 to 11 a.m. CET
- **Enterprise ting**: Wednesday 1 June 2022 - 1 to 3 p.m. CET
- **Lagtun**: Thursday 2 June 2022 - 9 to 11 a.m. CET


#### Ting week #5 (2022-02)

- **Lab ting**: Tuesday 15 February 2022 - 2 to 4 p.m. CET
- **Coordinator ting**: Wednesday 16 February 2022 - 9 to 11 a.m. CET
- **Enterprise ting**: Wednesday 16 February 2022 - 1 to 3 p.m. CET
- **Lagtun**: Thursday 17 February 2022 - 9 to 11 a.m. CET

#### Ting week #4 (2021-10)

- **Lab ting**: Tuesday 19 October 2021 -  2 to 4 p.m. CET ([agenda](https://assets.hdc.ntnu.no/assets/tingweek/hunt-cloud-tingweek4-labting-agenda.pdf))
- **Coordinator ting**: Wednesday 20 October 2021 - 9 to 11 a.m. CET ([agenda](https://assets.hdc.ntnu.no/assets/tingweek/hunt-cloud-tingweek4-coordinatorting-agenda.pdf))
- **Enterprise ting**: Wednesday 20 October 2021 - 1 to 3 p.m. CET ([agenda](https://assets.hdc.ntnu.no/assets/tingweek/hunt-cloud-tingweek4-enterpriseting-agenda.pdf))
- **Lagtun**: Thursday 21 October 2021 - 9 to 11 a.m. CET ([agenda](https://assets.hdc.ntnu.no/assets/tingweek/hunt-cloud-tingweek4-lagtun-agenda.pdf))

#### Ting week #3 (2021-05)

- **Lab ting**: Tuesday 25 May 2021 -  2 to 4 p.m. CET  ([agenda](https://assets.hdc.ntnu.no/assets/tingweek/hunt-cloud-tingweek3-labting-agenda.pdf))
- **Coordinator ting**: Wednesday 26 May 2021 - 9 to 11 a.m. CET ([agenda](https://assets.hdc.ntnu.no/assets/tingweek/hunt-cloud-tingweek3-coordinatorting-agenda.pdf))
- **Enterprise ting**: Wednesday 26 May 2021 - 1 to 3 p.m. CET ([agenda](https://assets.hdc.ntnu.no/assets/tingweek/hunt-cloud-tingweek3-enterpriseting-agenda.pdf))
- **Lagtun**: Thursday 27 May 2021 - 9 to 11 a.m. CET ([agenda](https://assets.hdc.ntnu.no/assets/tingweek/hunt-cloud-tingweek3-lagtun-agenda.pdf))

#### Ting week #2 (2021-02)

- **Lab ting**: Tuesday 16 February 2021 -  2 to 4 p.m. CET ([agenda](https://assets.hdc.ntnu.no/assets/tingweek/hunt-cloud-tingweek2-labting-agenda.pdf))
- **Coordinator ting**: Wednesday 17 February 2021 - 9 to 11 a.m. CET ([agenda](https://assets.hdc.ntnu.no/assets/tingweek/hunt-cloud-tingweek2-coordinatorting-agenda.pdf))
- **Enterprise ting**: Wednesday 17 February 2021 - 1 to 3 p.m. CET ([agenda](https://assets.hdc.ntnu.no/assets/tingweek/hunt-cloud-tingweek2-enterpriseting-agenda.pdf))
- **Lagtun**: Thursday 18 February 2021 - 9 to 11 a.m. CET ([agenda](https://assets.hdc.ntnu.no/assets/tingweek/hunt-cloud-tingweek2-lagtun-agenda.pdf))

#### Ting week #1 (2020-10)

- **Lab ting**: Tuesday 13 October 2020 - 2 to 4 p.m. CET ([agenda](https://assets.hdc.ntnu.no/assets/tingweek/hunt-cloud-tingweek1-labting-agenda.pdf))
- **Coordinator ting**: Wednesday 14 October 2020 - 9 to 11 a.m. CET ([agenda](https://assets.hdc.ntnu.no/assets/tingweek/hunt-cloud-tingweek1-coordinatorting-agenda.pdf))
- **Lagtun**: Thursday 15 October 2020 - 9 to 11 a.m. CET ([agenda](https://assets.hdc.ntnu.no/assets/tingweek/hunt-cloud-tingweek1-lagtun-agenda.pdf))






## FAQ

#### Why Tings? 

The inspiration to appoint time to meet at regular intervals in a layered structure is drawn from the Old Norse [ting](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Thing_(assembly)#Etymology) structures such as [Frostating](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Frostating) here in Trøndelag. The intention is to ensure regular discussions on how we together best can elevate data for a better world, including feedback on how to best adapt and evolve the scientific toolbox of HUNT Cloud to better support your scientific journey.

#### Is this an assembly? 

No. Our tings are not the same as a general assembly (generalforsamling) with binding decisions. As of today, our tings are to be seen as a gathering of people that both champion and dream up ideas on how to best utilize data for a better world. HUNT Cloud is owned by NTNU which has the full financial and compliance responsibilities for our services.

#### How do I get invited? 

Ting invitations, agenda and digital meeting links are forwarded on email a few weeks before the Ting week. Dates will also be announced on these pages and on Slack.

#### Where do we meet? 

We will meet digitally at Zoom utilizing the NTNU subscription. Links will be forwarded on email and on Slack for the lab ting.

#### Where are the minutes? 

Our tings have public agendas and internal minutes. We write up a summary after the week that gets distributed directly to the invited parties. The summary contains statements from all tings.

Commit message:

updated system staus and ting dates on front page

docs/governance/tingweek.md, after:

---
title: Ting week
category: HUNT Cloud
permalink: /tingweek
sidebarDepth: 1
description: This page list information and questions about our ting weeks.
---

# Ting week

**We appoint time three times per year to meet for information, feedback and discussions on how to develop the services in HUNT Cloud to better elevate science. We call these gatherings Tings.** 

We arrange a layered set of Tings for distinct groups in our community. The meetings are spread out over one week in the winter, spring and autumn. We call these weeks "Ting weeks".

::: tip Next

- **Lab ting**: Tuesday 15 February 2022 - 2 to 4 p.m. CET
- **Coordinator ting**: Wednesday 16 February 2022 - 9 to 11 a.m. CET
- **Enterprise ting**: Wednesday 16 February 2022 - 1 to 3 p.m. CET
- **Lagtun**: Thursday 17 February 2022 - 9 to 11 a.m. CET

:::

[[toc]]



## Reports

The intent of the Ting report is to give you the opportunity to read up on **what** we are doing at HUNT Cloud, and a little bit on **why** we do it. All so we can meet at the tings and have informed discussions on how to best elevate data for a better world!

The reports include a letter with reflections from the last Ting period as well as chapters with business description, risk factors, description of properties, and external and internal controls. 

- [Ting report #4 (2021-10)](https://assets.hdc.ntnu.no/assets/tingweek/hunt-cloud-tingweek4-report.pdf)
- [Ting report #3 (2021-05)](https://assets.hdc.ntnu.no/assets/tingweek/hunt-cloud-tingweek3-report.pdf)
- [Ting report #2 (2021-02)](https://assets.hdc.ntnu.no/assets/tingweek/hunt-cloud-tingweek2-report.pdf)
- [Ting report #1 (2020-10)](https://assets.hdc.ntnu.no/assets/tingweek/hunt-cloud-tingweek1-report.pdf)



## Tings

We have implemented a layered Ting structure to elevate voices and collective knowledge from distinct groups within the community. As of today, we appoint time for four different Tings that meet during the Ting weeks:

![Tingweek tings](./images/tingweek-tings.png)

### Lab ting

This is our allting that focuses on the user experience in our **lab service**. All users are invited for information, feedback and discussions on all aspects of existing, planned and future services.

### Coordinator ting

This is the Ting where we appoint time to discuss scientific coordination as a premise to make science fly. The discussions including topics related to users experinces for our **data space service**, such as compliance, data management, technical coordination, knowledge management and financial aspedts.

### Enterprise ting

This is the Ting where we appoint time to meet with the community that are affiliated with **private institutions**. We have a special focus on issues that is relevant for small and medium sized enterprises (SMEs) and larger contract research non-profit institutions.

### Lagtun

Lagtun is the Ting where we appoint time for cross-organizational discussions among **data controllers, service centers and large data spaces** in the community. This Ting gives direct advice on our strategic and tactical development to the HUNT Cloud management. [Read more](/tingweek/lagtun/).



## Memberships

Memberships to the Tings are derived from the following registered roles in contractual agreements with HUNT Cloud:

| Ting | Invitations |
| - | - | 
| **Lab ting** | All active lab users. |
| **Coordinator ting** | All coordinators in active labs and data spaces. |
| **Enterprise ting** | All active users registered or associated with a private enterprise. |
| **Lagtun** | Data controllers, service centers and data spaces on the BLUE subscription level ([read more](/tingweek/lagtun/#representatives)). |


## Schedule 

![Ting schedule year](./images/tingweek-schedule-year.png)

Ting weeks are scheduled over one week in the winter, spring and autumn: (i) The winter Ting is usually scheduled mid February; (ii) The spring Ting in late May or early June; and (iii ) the autumn Ting in the second half of October. 

![Ting schedule days](./images/tingweek-schedule-days.png)

Individual Tings are scheduled over the week on the same time slots. The current scheule is as follows: Lab tings are held on Tuesdays 2-4 pm CET, Coordinator tings on Wednesdays 9-11 am CET, Enterprise tings on Wednesdays 1-3 pm CET and Lagtun on Thursdays 9-11 am CET.



## Dates and agendas

#### Ting week #6 (2022-05)

- **Lab ting**: Tuesday 31 May 2022 - 2 to 4 p.m. CET
- **Coordinator ting**: Wednesday 1 June 2022 - 9 to 11 a.m. CET
- **Enterprise ting**: Wednesday 1 June 2022 - 1 to 3 p.m. CET
- **Lagtun**: Thursday 2 June 2022 - 9 to 11 a.m. CET


#### Ting week #5 (2022-02)

- **Lab ting**: Tuesday 15 February 2022 - 2 to 4 p.m. CET
- **Coordinator ting**: Wednesday 16 February 2022 - 9 to 11 a.m. CET
- **Enterprise ting**: Wednesday 16 February 2022 - 1 to 3 p.m. CET
- **Lagtun**: Thursday 17 February 2022 - 9 to 11 a.m. CET

#### Ting week #4 (2021-10)

- **Lab ting**: Tuesday 19 October 2021 -  2 to 4 p.m. CET ([agenda](https://assets.hdc.ntnu.no/assets/tingweek/hunt-cloud-tingweek4-labting-agenda.pdf))
- **Coordinator ting**: Wednesday 20 October 2021 - 9 to 11 a.m. CET ([agenda](https://assets.hdc.ntnu.no/assets/tingweek/hunt-cloud-tingweek4-coordinatorting-agenda.pdf))
- **Enterprise ting**: Wednesday 20 October 2021 - 1 to 3 p.m. CET ([agenda](https://assets.hdc.ntnu.no/assets/tingweek/hunt-cloud-tingweek4-enterpriseting-agenda.pdf))
- **Lagtun**: Thursday 21 October 2021 - 9 to 11 a.m. CET ([agenda](https://assets.hdc.ntnu.no/assets/tingweek/hunt-cloud-tingweek4-lagtun-agenda.pdf))

#### Ting week #3 (2021-05)

- **Lab ting**: Tuesday 25 May 2021 -  2 to 4 p.m. CET  ([agenda](https://assets.hdc.ntnu.no/assets/tingweek/hunt-cloud-tingweek3-labting-agenda.pdf))
- **Coordinator ting**: Wednesday 26 May 2021 - 9 to 11 a.m. CET ([agenda](https://assets.hdc.ntnu.no/assets/tingweek/hunt-cloud-tingweek3-coordinatorting-agenda.pdf))
- **Enterprise ting**: Wednesday 26 May 2021 - 1 to 3 p.m. CET ([agenda](https://assets.hdc.ntnu.no/assets/tingweek/hunt-cloud-tingweek3-enterpriseting-agenda.pdf))
- **Lagtun**: Thursday 27 May 2021 - 9 to 11 a.m. CET ([agenda](https://assets.hdc.ntnu.no/assets/tingweek/hunt-cloud-tingweek3-lagtun-agenda.pdf))

#### Ting week #2 (2021-02)

- **Lab ting**: Tuesday 16 February 2021 -  2 to 4 p.m. CET ([agenda](https://assets.hdc.ntnu.no/assets/tingweek/hunt-cloud-tingweek2-labting-agenda.pdf))
- **Coordinator ting**: Wednesday 17 February 2021 - 9 to 11 a.m. CET ([agenda](https://assets.hdc.ntnu.no/assets/tingweek/hunt-cloud-tingweek2-coordinatorting-agenda.pdf))
- **Enterprise ting**: Wednesday 17 February 2021 - 1 to 3 p.m. CET ([agenda](https://assets.hdc.ntnu.no/assets/tingweek/hunt-cloud-tingweek2-enterpriseting-agenda.pdf))
- **Lagtun**: Thursday 18 February 2021 - 9 to 11 a.m. CET ([agenda](https://assets.hdc.ntnu.no/assets/tingweek/hunt-cloud-tingweek2-lagtun-agenda.pdf))

#### Ting week #1 (2020-10)

- **Lab ting**: Tuesday 13 October 2020 - 2 to 4 p.m. CET ([agenda](https://assets.hdc.ntnu.no/assets/tingweek/hunt-cloud-tingweek1-labting-agenda.pdf))
- **Coordinator ting**: Wednesday 14 October 2020 - 9 to 11 a.m. CET ([agenda](https://assets.hdc.ntnu.no/assets/tingweek/hunt-cloud-tingweek1-coordinatorting-agenda.pdf))
- **Lagtun**: Thursday 15 October 2020 - 9 to 11 a.m. CET ([agenda](https://assets.hdc.ntnu.no/assets/tingweek/hunt-cloud-tingweek1-lagtun-agenda.pdf))






## FAQ

#### Why Tings? 

The inspiration to appoint time to meet at regular intervals in a layered structure is drawn from the Old Norse [ting](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Thing_(assembly)#Etymology) structures such as [Frostating](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Frostating) here in Trøndelag. The intention is to ensure regular discussions on how we together best can elevate data for a better world, including feedback on how to best adapt and evolve the scientific toolbox of HUNT Cloud to better support your scientific journey.

#### Is this an assembly? 

No. Our tings are not the same as a general assembly (generalforsamling) with binding decisions. As of today, our tings are to be seen as a gathering of people that both champion and dream up ideas on how to best utilize data for a better world. HUNT Cloud is owned by NTNU which has the full financial and compliance responsibilities for our services.

#### How do I get invited? 

Ting invitations, agenda and digital meeting links are forwarded on email a few weeks before the Ting week. Dates will also be announced on these pages and on Slack.

#### Where do we meet? 

We will meet digitally at Zoom utilizing the NTNU subscription. Links will be forwarded on email and on Slack for the lab ting.

#### Where are the minutes? 

Our tings have public agendas and internal minutes. We write up a summary after the week that gets distributed directly to the invited parties. The summary contains statements from all tings.
