docs/getting-started/README.md, before:

# Introduction

This guide will help you get connected and started on your HUNT Cloud lab.

::: tip

[Install Signal](/getting-started/how-to-connect/#setup-signal) on your phone and notify us by email as soon as you have sent us the signed user agreement. This allows us to forward your lab keys as soon as they are generated.
:::

The initial configuration of access to your lab has four steps:

1. Collect your lab keys and configuration files
2. Configure the VPN connection
3. Configure the SSH connection
4. Simplify your lab life with handy tools

Allow for two hours to complete this guide when you have collected all your lab keys and configuration files..

::: warning General requirements

**Without these, it is impossible to access your lab environment.**

- Signed user agreement ([blank template](https://www.ntnu.edu/documents/1282184702/1283475046/hcc-user-agreement-web.pdf/7dbfd0ac-9f02-4165-8862-a480becb88ad?version=1.1))
- Computer connected to the Internet
- Smartphone to receive system keys from HUNT Cloud
- Compressed file from HUNT Cloud downloaded from link sent over email

:::

Commit message:

first iteration of onboarding guide split

docs/getting-started/README.md, after:

# Introduction

This guide will help you get connected and started on your HUNT Cloud lab. 

::: tip

[Install Signal](/getting-started/how-to-connect/#setup-signal) on your phone and notify us by email as soon as you have sent us the signed user agreement. This allows us to quickly forward your lab keys when they are generated.
:::

This guide help you invest some time in your initial lab configuration so you can enjoy simple and secure access for the remaining of your project period. To get there, we have made four onboarding steps:

1. **Collect your keys.** This step ensures that you have all your keys and configuration files before your start to spend time on the setup.
2. **Configure your VPN connection.** This step ensures an encrypted connection to your lab.
3. **Configure your SSH connection.** This step ensures a core connection to your lab.
4. **Configure other tools.** This step highlights other tools that you may want to configure to simplify your scientific computing. 

::: warning Time estimate

After you have collected your lab keys in step 1, allow for **two hours** to complete the remaing onboarding steps.

:::
