docs/govern-science/tingweek/dates.md, before:

---
title: Dates
category: Tingweek
permalink: /govern-science/tingweek/dates/
sidebarDepth: 1
description: This page list information and questions about our Tingweeks.
---


# Ting dates and agendas

**This pages contains paste and future Ting dates and Ting agendas. [Click here](/govern-science/tingweek/#schedule) to read about the Ting schedule.**

::: tip Next Tingweek (Ting 8)

- **Lab ting**: Tuesday 14 February 2023 - 2 to 4 p.m. CET ([agenda](https://assets.hdc.ntnu.no/assets/tingweek/hunt-cloud-tingweek8-labting-agenda.pdf))
- **Data space ting**: Wednesday 15 February 2023 - 9 to 11 a.m. CET ([agenda](https://assets.hdc.ntnu.no/assets/tingweek/hunt-cloud-tingweek8-dataspaceting-agenda.pdf))
- **Data controller ting**: Wednesday 15 February 2023 - 1 to 3 p.m. CET ([agenda](https://assets.hdc.ntnu.no/assets/tingweek/hunt-cloud-tingweek8-datacontrollerting-agenda.pdf))
- **Lagtun**: Thursday 16 February 2023 - 9 to 11 a.m. CET ([agenda](https://assets.hdc.ntnu.no/assets/tingweek/hunt-cloud-tingweek8-lagtun-agenda.pdf))

:::

[[toc]]




### Tingweek #9 (2023-05)

- **Lab ting**: Tuesday 30 May 2023 - 2 to 4 p.m. CET
- **Data space ting**: Wednesday 31 May 2023 - 9 to 11 a.m. CET
- **Data controller ting**: Wednesday 31 May 2023 - 1 to 3 p.m. CET
- **Lagtun**: Thursday 1 June 2023 - 9 to 11 a.m. CET

### Tingweek #8 (2023-02)

- **Lab ting**: Tuesday 14 February 2023 - 2 to 4 p.m. CET ([agenda](https://assets.hdc.ntnu.no/assets/tingweek/hunt-cloud-tingweek8-labting-agenda.pdf))
- **Data space ting**: Wednesday 15 February 2023 - 9 to 11 a.m. CET ([agenda](https://assets.hdc.ntnu.no/assets/tingweek/hunt-cloud-tingweek8-dataspaceting-agenda.pdf))
- **Data controller ting**: Wednesday 15 February 2023 - 1 to 3 p.m. CET ([agenda](https://assets.hdc.ntnu.no/assets/tingweek/hunt-cloud-tingweek8-datacontrollerting-agenda.pdf))
- **Lagtun**: Thursday 16 February 2023 - 9 to 11 a.m. CET ([agenda](https://assets.hdc.ntnu.no/assets/tingweek/hunt-cloud-tingweek8-lagtun-agenda.pdf))

### Tingweek #7 (2022-10)

- **Lab ting**: Tuesday 18 October 2022 - 2 to 4 p.m. CET ([agenda](https://assets.hdc.ntnu.no/assets/tingweek/hunt-cloud-tingweek7-labting-agenda.pdf))
- **Data space ting**: Wednesday 19 October 2022 - 9 to 11 a.m. CET ([agenda](https://assets.hdc.ntnu.no/assets/tingweek/hunt-cloud-tingweek7-dataspaceting-agenda.pdf))
- **Data controller ting**: Wednesday 19 October 2022 - 1 to 3 p.m. CET ([agenda](https://assets.hdc.ntnu.no/assets/tingweek/hunt-cloud-tingweek7-datacontrollerting-agenda.pdf))
- **Lagtun**: Thursday 20 October 2022 - 9 to 11 a.m. CET ([agenda](https://assets.hdc.ntnu.no/assets/tingweek/hunt-cloud-tingweek7-lagtun-agenda.pdf))

### Tingweek #6 (2022-05)

- **Lab ting**: Tuesday 31 May 2022 - 2 to 4 p.m. CET ([agenda](https://assets.hdc.ntnu.no/assets/tingweek/hunt-cloud-tingweek6-labting-agenda.pdf))
- **Data space ting**: Wednesday 1 June 2022 - 9 to 11 a.m. CET ([agenda](https://assets.hdc.ntnu.no/assets/tingweek/hunt-cloud-tingweek6-dataspaceting-agenda.pdf))
- **Enterprise ting**: Wednesday 1 June 2022 - 1 to 3 p.m. CET ([agenda](https://assets.hdc.ntnu.no/assets/tingweek/hunt-cloud-tingweek6-enterpriseting-agenda.pdf))
- **Lagtun**: Thursday 2 June 2022 - 9 to 11 a.m. CET ([agenda](https://assets.hdc.ntnu.no/assets/tingweek/hunt-cloud-tingweek6-lagtun-agenda.pdf))


### Tingweek #5 (2022-02)

- **Lab ting**: Tuesday 15 February 2022 - 2 to 4 p.m. CET ([agenda](https://assets.hdc.ntnu.no/assets/tingweek/hunt-cloud-tingweek5-labting-agenda.pdf))
- **Data space ting**: Wednesday 16 February 2022 - 9 to 11 a.m. CET ([agenda](https://assets.hdc.ntnu.no/assets/tingweek/hunt-cloud-tingweek5-dataspaceting-agenda.pdf))
- **Enterprise ting**: Wednesday 16 February 2022 - 1 to 3 p.m. CET ([agenda](https://assets.hdc.ntnu.no/assets/tingweek/hunt-cloud-tingweek5-enterpriseting-agenda.pdf))
- **Lagtun**: Thursday 17 February 2022 - 9 to 11 a.m. CET ([agenda](https://assets.hdc.ntnu.no/assets/tingweek/hunt-cloud-tingweek5-lagtun-agenda.pdf))

### Tingweek #4 (2021-10)

- **Lab ting**: Tuesday 19 October 2021 -  2 to 4 p.m. CET ([agenda](https://assets.hdc.ntnu.no/assets/tingweek/hunt-cloud-tingweek4-labting-agenda.pdf))
- **Coordinator ting**: Wednesday 20 October 2021 - 9 to 11 a.m. CET ([agenda](https://assets.hdc.ntnu.no/assets/tingweek/hunt-cloud-tingweek4-coordinatorting-agenda.pdf))
- **Enterprise ting**: Wednesday 20 October 2021 - 1 to 3 p.m. CET ([agenda](https://assets.hdc.ntnu.no/assets/tingweek/hunt-cloud-tingweek4-enterpriseting-agenda.pdf))
- **Lagtun**: Thursday 21 October 2021 - 9 to 11 a.m. CET ([agenda](https://assets.hdc.ntnu.no/assets/tingweek/hunt-cloud-tingweek4-lagtun-agenda.pdf))

### Tingweek #3 (2021-05)

- **Lab ting**: Tuesday 25 May 2021 -  2 to 4 p.m. CET  ([agenda](https://assets.hdc.ntnu.no/assets/tingweek/hunt-cloud-tingweek3-labting-agenda.pdf))
- **Coordinator ting**: Wednesday 26 May 2021 - 9 to 11 a.m. CET ([agenda](https://assets.hdc.ntnu.no/assets/tingweek/hunt-cloud-tingweek3-coordinatorting-agenda.pdf))
- **Enterprise ting**: Wednesday 26 May 2021 - 1 to 3 p.m. CET ([agenda](https://assets.hdc.ntnu.no/assets/tingweek/hunt-cloud-tingweek3-enterpriseting-agenda.pdf))
- **Lagtun**: Thursday 27 May 2021 - 9 to 11 a.m. CET ([agenda](https://assets.hdc.ntnu.no/assets/tingweek/hunt-cloud-tingweek3-lagtun-agenda.pdf))

### Tingweek #2 (2021-02)

- **Lab ting**: Tuesday 16 February 2021 -  2 to 4 p.m. CET ([agenda](https://assets.hdc.ntnu.no/assets/tingweek/hunt-cloud-tingweek2-labting-agenda.pdf))
- **Coordinator ting**: Wednesday 17 February 2021 - 9 to 11 a.m. CET ([agenda](https://assets.hdc.ntnu.no/assets/tingweek/hunt-cloud-tingweek2-coordinatorting-agenda.pdf))
- **Enterprise ting**: Wednesday 17 February 2021 - 1 to 3 p.m. CET ([agenda](https://assets.hdc.ntnu.no/assets/tingweek/hunt-cloud-tingweek2-enterpriseting-agenda.pdf))
- **Lagtun**: Thursday 18 February 2021 - 9 to 11 a.m. CET ([agenda](https://assets.hdc.ntnu.no/assets/tingweek/hunt-cloud-tingweek2-lagtun-agenda.pdf))

### Tingweek #1 (2020-10)

- **Lab ting**: Tuesday 13 October 2020 - 2 to 4 p.m. CET ([agenda](https://assets.hdc.ntnu.no/assets/tingweek/hunt-cloud-tingweek1-labting-agenda.pdf))
- **Coordinator ting**: Wednesday 14 October 2020 - 9 to 11 a.m. CET ([agenda](https://assets.hdc.ntnu.no/assets/tingweek/hunt-cloud-tingweek1-coordinatorting-agenda.pdf))
- **Lagtun**: Thursday 15 October 2020 - 9 to 11 a.m. CET ([agenda](https://assets.hdc.ntnu.no/assets/tingweek/hunt-cloud-tingweek1-lagtun-agenda.pdf))

Commit message:

syntax for labting and new dates

docs/govern-science/tingweek/dates.md, after:

---
title: Dates
category: Tingweek
permalink: /govern-science/tingweek/dates/
sidebarDepth: 1
description: This page list information and questions about our Tingweeks.
---


# Ting dates and agendas

**This pages contains paste and future Ting dates and Ting agendas. [Click here](/govern-science/tingweek/#schedule) to read about the Ting schedule.**

::: tip Next Tingweek (Ting 8)

- **Labting**: Tuesday 14 February 2023 - 2 to 4 p.m. CET ([agenda](https://assets.hdc.ntnu.no/assets/tingweek/hunt-cloud-tingweek8-labting-agenda.pdf))
- **Data space ting**: Wednesday 15 February 2023 - 9 to 11 a.m. CET ([agenda](https://assets.hdc.ntnu.no/assets/tingweek/hunt-cloud-tingweek8-dataspaceting-agenda.pdf))
- **Data controller ting**: Wednesday 15 February 2023 - 1 to 3 p.m. CET ([agenda](https://assets.hdc.ntnu.no/assets/tingweek/hunt-cloud-tingweek8-datacontrollerting-agenda.pdf))
- **Lagtun**: Thursday 16 February 2023 - 9 to 11 a.m. CET ([agenda](https://assets.hdc.ntnu.no/assets/tingweek/hunt-cloud-tingweek8-lagtun-agenda.pdf))

:::

[[toc]]




### Tingweek #9 (2023-05)

- **Labting**: Tuesday 30 May 2023 - 2 to 4 p.m. CET
- **Data space ting**: Wednesday 31 May 2023 - 9 to 11 a.m. CET
- **Data controller ting**: Wednesday 31 May 2023 - 1 to 3 p.m. CET
- **Lagtun**: Thursday 1 June 2023 - 9 to 11 a.m. CET

### Tingweek #8 (2023-02)

- **Labting**: Tuesday 14 February 2023 - 2 to 4 p.m. CET ([agenda](https://assets.hdc.ntnu.no/assets/tingweek/hunt-cloud-tingweek8-labting-agenda.pdf))
- **Data space ting**: Wednesday 15 February 2023 - 9 to 11 a.m. CET ([agenda](https://assets.hdc.ntnu.no/assets/tingweek/hunt-cloud-tingweek8-dataspaceting-agenda.pdf))
- **Data controller ting**: Wednesday 15 February 2023 - 1 to 3 p.m. CET ([agenda](https://assets.hdc.ntnu.no/assets/tingweek/hunt-cloud-tingweek8-datacontrollerting-agenda.pdf))
- **Lagtun**: Thursday 16 February 2023 - 9 to 11 a.m. CET ([agenda](https://assets.hdc.ntnu.no/assets/tingweek/hunt-cloud-tingweek8-lagtun-agenda.pdf))

### Tingweek #7 (2022-10)

- **Labting**: Tuesday 18 October 2022 - 2 to 4 p.m. CET ([agenda](https://assets.hdc.ntnu.no/assets/tingweek/hunt-cloud-tingweek7-labting-agenda.pdf))
- **Data space ting**: Wednesday 19 October 2022 - 9 to 11 a.m. CET ([agenda](https://assets.hdc.ntnu.no/assets/tingweek/hunt-cloud-tingweek7-dataspaceting-agenda.pdf))
- **Data controller ting**: Wednesday 19 October 2022 - 1 to 3 p.m. CET ([agenda](https://assets.hdc.ntnu.no/assets/tingweek/hunt-cloud-tingweek7-datacontrollerting-agenda.pdf))
- **Lagtun**: Thursday 20 October 2022 - 9 to 11 a.m. CET ([agenda](https://assets.hdc.ntnu.no/assets/tingweek/hunt-cloud-tingweek7-lagtun-agenda.pdf))

### Tingweek #6 (2022-05)

- **Labting**: Tuesday 31 May 2022 - 2 to 4 p.m. CET ([agenda](https://assets.hdc.ntnu.no/assets/tingweek/hunt-cloud-tingweek6-labting-agenda.pdf))
- **Data space ting**: Wednesday 1 June 2022 - 9 to 11 a.m. CET ([agenda](https://assets.hdc.ntnu.no/assets/tingweek/hunt-cloud-tingweek6-dataspaceting-agenda.pdf))
- **Enterprise ting**: Wednesday 1 June 2022 - 1 to 3 p.m. CET ([agenda](https://assets.hdc.ntnu.no/assets/tingweek/hunt-cloud-tingweek6-enterpriseting-agenda.pdf))
- **Lagtun**: Thursday 2 June 2022 - 9 to 11 a.m. CET ([agenda](https://assets.hdc.ntnu.no/assets/tingweek/hunt-cloud-tingweek6-lagtun-agenda.pdf))


### Tingweek #5 (2022-02)

- **Labting**: Tuesday 15 February 2022 - 2 to 4 p.m. CET ([agenda](https://assets.hdc.ntnu.no/assets/tingweek/hunt-cloud-tingweek5-labting-agenda.pdf))
- **Data space ting**: Wednesday 16 February 2022 - 9 to 11 a.m. CET ([agenda](https://assets.hdc.ntnu.no/assets/tingweek/hunt-cloud-tingweek5-dataspaceting-agenda.pdf))
- **Enterprise ting**: Wednesday 16 February 2022 - 1 to 3 p.m. CET ([agenda](https://assets.hdc.ntnu.no/assets/tingweek/hunt-cloud-tingweek5-enterpriseting-agenda.pdf))
- **Lagtun**: Thursday 17 February 2022 - 9 to 11 a.m. CET ([agenda](https://assets.hdc.ntnu.no/assets/tingweek/hunt-cloud-tingweek5-lagtun-agenda.pdf))

### Tingweek #4 (2021-10)

- **Labting**: Tuesday 19 October 2021 -  2 to 4 p.m. CET ([agenda](https://assets.hdc.ntnu.no/assets/tingweek/hunt-cloud-tingweek4-labting-agenda.pdf))
- **Coordinator ting**: Wednesday 20 October 2021 - 9 to 11 a.m. CET ([agenda](https://assets.hdc.ntnu.no/assets/tingweek/hunt-cloud-tingweek4-coordinatorting-agenda.pdf))
- **Enterprise ting**: Wednesday 20 October 2021 - 1 to 3 p.m. CET ([agenda](https://assets.hdc.ntnu.no/assets/tingweek/hunt-cloud-tingweek4-enterpriseting-agenda.pdf))
- **Lagtun**: Thursday 21 October 2021 - 9 to 11 a.m. CET ([agenda](https://assets.hdc.ntnu.no/assets/tingweek/hunt-cloud-tingweek4-lagtun-agenda.pdf))

### Tingweek #3 (2021-05)

- **Labting**: Tuesday 25 May 2021 -  2 to 4 p.m. CET  ([agenda](https://assets.hdc.ntnu.no/assets/tingweek/hunt-cloud-tingweek3-labting-agenda.pdf))
- **Coordinator ting**: Wednesday 26 May 2021 - 9 to 11 a.m. CET ([agenda](https://assets.hdc.ntnu.no/assets/tingweek/hunt-cloud-tingweek3-coordinatorting-agenda.pdf))
- **Enterprise ting**: Wednesday 26 May 2021 - 1 to 3 p.m. CET ([agenda](https://assets.hdc.ntnu.no/assets/tingweek/hunt-cloud-tingweek3-enterpriseting-agenda.pdf))
- **Lagtun**: Thursday 27 May 2021 - 9 to 11 a.m. CET ([agenda](https://assets.hdc.ntnu.no/assets/tingweek/hunt-cloud-tingweek3-lagtun-agenda.pdf))

### Tingweek #2 (2021-02)

- **Labting**: Tuesday 16 February 2021 -  2 to 4 p.m. CET ([agenda](https://assets.hdc.ntnu.no/assets/tingweek/hunt-cloud-tingweek2-labting-agenda.pdf))
- **Coordinator ting**: Wednesday 17 February 2021 - 9 to 11 a.m. CET ([agenda](https://assets.hdc.ntnu.no/assets/tingweek/hunt-cloud-tingweek2-coordinatorting-agenda.pdf))
- **Enterprise ting**: Wednesday 17 February 2021 - 1 to 3 p.m. CET ([agenda](https://assets.hdc.ntnu.no/assets/tingweek/hunt-cloud-tingweek2-enterpriseting-agenda.pdf))
- **Lagtun**: Thursday 18 February 2021 - 9 to 11 a.m. CET ([agenda](https://assets.hdc.ntnu.no/assets/tingweek/hunt-cloud-tingweek2-lagtun-agenda.pdf))

### Tingweek #1 (2020-10)

- **Labting**: Tuesday 13 October 2020 - 2 to 4 p.m. CET ([agenda](https://assets.hdc.ntnu.no/assets/tingweek/hunt-cloud-tingweek1-labting-agenda.pdf))
- **Coordinator ting**: Wednesday 14 October 2020 - 9 to 11 a.m. CET ([agenda](https://assets.hdc.ntnu.no/assets/tingweek/hunt-cloud-tingweek1-coordinatorting-agenda.pdf))
- **Lagtun**: Thursday 15 October 2020 - 9 to 11 a.m. CET ([agenda](https://assets.hdc.ntnu.no/assets/tingweek/hunt-cloud-tingweek1-lagtun-agenda.pdf))
