docs/working-in-your-lab/analytical-tools/r-studio.md, before:

---
title: R and R-Studio
permalink: /working-in-your-lab/analytical-tools/r-studio
sidebarDepth: 3
---

# R

[R](https://www.r-project.org/) is a handy language and environment for statistical computing and graphics.

We have already installed the latest version on your home node.
For those of you running unmanaged nodes on our security tier 2 may want to upgrade to the latest version using the code below:

## Ubuntu

```bash
# Install R
sudo apt install r-base r-base-dev -y

# Add the updated package repository to your sources list:
# https://cran.r-project.org/bin/linux/ubuntu/
sudo su
echo "deb https://ftp.acc.umu.se/mirror/CRAN/bin/linux/ubuntu $(lsb_release -cs)/" >> /etc/apt/sources.list

# Add keys for the CRAN repository
gpg --keyserver hkp://keyserver.ubuntu.com:80 --recv-keys E084DAB9
gpg -a --export E084DAB9 | sudo apt-key add -
exit

# Update packages
sudo apt update
sudo apt upgrade
sudo apt autoremove

# Start R
R
```

### Upgrade to latest R-version

The default version in R is usually a few versions behind the newest software. Follow the code below if you need the newest version.

```bash
# -- Add the new package repository to your sources list:
sudo add-apt-repository 'deb https://cloud.r-project.org/bin/linux/ubuntu $(lsb_release -cs)-cran35/'

# -- Update packages
sudo apt update
sudo apt upgrade -y
sudo apt autoremove -y

# -- Start R
R
```

### Downgrade your R version to a specific version (iaas nodes)

Sometimes you may want to pin your R version to a specific release to please specific packages required for your work.
Below are a guide on how to downgrade and pin your R version to a specific release (just in case your figured our the need _after_ you upgraded R to a new version...).
The guide is copied from this great [forum post](https://askubuntu.com/questions/1056630/r-3-5-0-not-working-on-ubuntu-18-04/1057231#1057231).
`Please note`, this require administrator privileges, so the commands will only work on unmanaged iaas-nodes.
Please give us a shout [here](/contact) if you need a downgrade on your home node, we are happy to assist.

#### Save the R-packages that is already installed in your lab

```bash
dpkg -l | grep "^ii  r-" > r_packages.txt
```

#### Pin the software version to a specific version (in this case R 3.5)

```bash
cat <<EOF | sudo tee /etc/apt/preferences.d/pin-r35
Package: r-*
Pin: release a=$(lsb_release -cs)-cran35
Pin: version 3.5*
Pin-Priority: 800

Package: r-cran-nlme
Pin: release a=$(lsb_release -cs)-cran35
Pin: version 3.1.139-1$(lsb_release -cs)0
Pin-Priority: 800
EOF
```

#### Purge and remove the current R-version

```bash
sudo apt purge r-*
sudo apt autoremove
```

#### Re-install your specific R version and your r-packages

```bash
sudo apt-get install $(cat r_packages.txt | awk '{print $2}')
```

#### Check that the new correct version is running

```bash
R

R version 3.5.3 (2019-03-11) -- "Great Truth"
```

#### Optional, remove the version pinning

Remove your pin-file if you want to revert to the newest version.

```bash
sudo rm /etc/apt/preferences.d/pin-r35
sudo apt dist-upgrade
```

## Install R Studio

We do provide the opportunity for a graphical interface via R Studio.
Researchers may install this on unmanaged machines (iaas-nodes).
Installation on home-nodes require us to run some code.

### Dependencies

- R (installed as above)
- A machine prepared for a [graphical interface (X2Go)](X2Go)

`Without these, it will be impossible to get RStudio to work.`

### Download the latest software version

Search [www.rstudio.com](https://www.rstudio.com/products/rstudio/download/#download) for the latest version in accordance with your operating system (e.g. Ubuntu 16.04 xenial).
The below text is an example code which you may cut and paste into your shell:

```bash
# download the package
wget https://download1.rstudio.org/rstudio-xenial-1.1.463-amd64.deb;

# install a handy package installer
sudo apt install gdebi-core;

# install rstudio with dependencies
(echo "y") | sudo gdebi rstudio-xenial-1.1.463-amd64.deb;

# clean up files
rm rstudio-xenial-1.1.463-amd64.deb;
```

### Configure X2Go

To automatically start RStudio, revisit your _Session preferences_ in the [X2Go setup](x2go) and update your _Single application command path_ to `/usr/bin/rstudio`and _Create a session icon on the desktop..._.

`Please note`. There is a known bug in 1.1.456 / x2go that will go away if you comment out a line in the x2goagent.options:

```bash
sudo vim /etc/x2go/x2goagent.options
# X2GO_NXAGENT_DEFAULT_OPTIONS+=" -extension BIG-REQUESTS"
```

Commit message:

update rstudio links and some notes for x2go / rstudio

docs/working-in-your-lab/analytical-tools/r-studio.md, after:

---
title: R and R-Studio
permalink: /working-in-your-lab/analytical-tools/r-studio
sidebarDepth: 3
---

# R

[R](https://www.r-project.org/) is a handy language and environment for statistical computing and graphics.

We have already installed the latest version on your home node.
For those of you running unmanaged nodes on our security tier 2 may want to upgrade to the latest version using the code below:

## Ubuntu

```bash
# Install R
sudo apt install r-base r-base-dev -y

# Add the updated package repository to your sources list:
# https://cran.r-project.org/bin/linux/ubuntu/
sudo su
echo "deb https://ftp.acc.umu.se/mirror/CRAN/bin/linux/ubuntu $(lsb_release -cs)/" >> /etc/apt/sources.list

# Add keys for the CRAN repository
gpg --keyserver hkp://keyserver.ubuntu.com:80 --recv-keys E084DAB9
gpg -a --export E084DAB9 | sudo apt-key add -
exit

# Update packages
sudo apt update
sudo apt upgrade
sudo apt autoremove

# Start R
R
```

### Upgrade to latest R-version

The default version in R is usually a few versions behind the newest software. Follow the code below if you need the newest version.

```bash
# -- Add the new package repository to your sources list:
sudo add-apt-repository 'deb https://cloud.r-project.org/bin/linux/ubuntu $(lsb_release -cs)-cran35/'

# -- Update packages
sudo apt update
sudo apt upgrade -y
sudo apt autoremove -y

# -- Start R
R
```

### Downgrade your R version to a specific version (iaas nodes)

Sometimes you may want to pin your R version to a specific release to please specific packages required for your work.
Below are a guide on how to downgrade and pin your R version to a specific release (just in case your figured our the need _after_ you upgraded R to a new version...).
The guide is copied from this great [forum post](https://askubuntu.com/questions/1056630/r-3-5-0-not-working-on-ubuntu-18-04/1057231#1057231).
`Please note`, this require administrator privileges, so the commands will only work on unmanaged iaas-nodes.
Please give us a shout [here](/contact) if you need a downgrade on your home node, we are happy to assist.

#### Save the R-packages that is already installed in your lab

```bash
dpkg -l | grep "^ii  r-" > r_packages.txt
```

#### Pin the software version to a specific version (in this case R 3.5)

```bash
cat <<EOF | sudo tee /etc/apt/preferences.d/pin-r35
Package: r-*
Pin: release a=$(lsb_release -cs)-cran35
Pin: version 3.5*
Pin-Priority: 800

Package: r-cran-nlme
Pin: release a=$(lsb_release -cs)-cran35
Pin: version 3.1.139-1$(lsb_release -cs)0
Pin-Priority: 800
EOF
```

#### Purge and remove the current R-version

```bash
sudo apt purge r-*
sudo apt autoremove
```

#### Re-install your specific R version and your r-packages

```bash
sudo apt-get install $(cat r_packages.txt | awk '{print $2}')
```

#### Check that the new correct version is running

```bash
R

R version 3.5.3 (2019-03-11) -- "Great Truth"
```

#### Optional, remove the version pinning

Remove your pin-file if you want to revert to the newest version.

```bash
sudo rm /etc/apt/preferences.d/pin-r35
sudo apt dist-upgrade
```

## Install R Studio

We do provide the opportunity for a graphical interface via R Studio.
Researchers may install this on unmanaged machines (iaas-nodes).
Installation on home-nodes require us to run some code.

::: warning Dependencies

`Without these, it will be impossible to get RStudio to work.`

- R (installed as above)
- A machine prepared for a [graphical interface (X2Go)](X2Go)
:::

::: tip
Make sure R-Studio is not already installed if the lab was setup before

```
which rstudio
```

:::

### Download the latest software version

Search [www.rstudio.com](https://www.rstudio.com/products/rstudio/download/#download) for the latest version in accordance with your operating system (e.g. Ubuntu 16.04 xenial).
The below text is an example code which you may cut and paste into your shell:

```bash
# download the package
wget https://download1.rstudio.org/rstudio-xenial-1.1.463-amd64.deb;

# install a handy package installer
sudo apt install gdebi-core;

# install rstudio with dependencies
(echo "y") | sudo gdebi rstudio-xenial-1.1.463-amd64.deb;

# clean up files
rm rstudio-xenial-1.1.463-amd64.deb;
```

### Configure X2Go

To automatically start RStudio, revisit your _Session preferences_ in the [X2Go setup](x2go) and update your _Single application command path_ to `/usr/bin/rstudio`and _Create a session icon on the desktop..._.

::: tip NOTE
There is a known bug in x2go `1.1.456` that will go away if you comment out (add # before) a line in the x2goagent.options:

```bash
sudo vim /etc/x2go/x2goagent.options
# X2GO_NXAGENT_DEFAULT_OPTIONS+=" -extension BIG-REQUESTS"
```
:::
