docs/about/tingweeks.md, before:

---
title: Ting weeks
category: HUNT Cloud
permalink: /about/tingweeks
sidebarDepth: 1
description: This page list information and questions about our ting weeks.
---

# Ting weeks

We come together three times a year for information, feedback and discussions on how to develop HUNT Cloud so you best can elevate your data-driven science. 

We arrange a set of "tings" for different parts of our community. The meetings are spread out over a week. We call these weeks "ting weeks".

[[toc]]

## Tings

We define our tings as "[appointed time](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Thing_(assembly)#Etymology)" where various members of the HUNT Cloud community come together to discuss how to best optimize for value extractions from raw materials and technologies within the community. The inspiration is drawn from the Old Norse ting structures such as [Frostating](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Frostating) in Trøndelag.

We aim to establish a layered ting structure with discussions that should be meaningful for those that participate.

### Lab ting

All lab users are invited to our lab ting.

This ting will focus on the development of our core technologies and processes that your meet in your lab environments, such as storage, compute, transfer, documentation and guide, onboarding, communication etc.

The ting is scheduled for two hours. The first part will be structured by the HUNT Cloud team with information, feedback and discussions on new developments and known pain. The last part will give room for an unstructured question and answer section.

### Coordinator ting

Research coordinators from data controllers, data spaces and individual labs are invited.

This ting will focus on optimization of research management and research coordination within your data spaces and labs. This may include topics such as agreement structures, user management, resource management, lab portfolio management etc.

The ting is scheduled for two hours. The first part will be structured by the HUNT Cloud team with information, feedback and discussions on new developments and known pain. The last part will give room for an unstructured question and answer section.

### Lagtun

Data controllers and major contributors are invited.

This is our top level ting where we meet to the overall strategic direction for HUNT Cloud and data-driven science.

The ting is scheduled for two hours. The first part will be structured with information, feedback and discussions on scheduled topics. The last part will give room for an unstructured question and answer section.


## Dates

We aim to hold ting weeks three times a year, in the fall around the autumn holidays, in the winter around the winter holidays and in the spring around the national holiday i Norway.

### Ting week #1 (2020-10)

Location: Digital

- **Lab ting**: Tuesday 13 October 2020 - 2 to 4 p.m. CET ([agenda](https://assets.hdc.ntnu.no/assets/tingweek/hunt-cloud-tingweek1-labting-agenda.pdf))
- **Coordinator ting**: Wednesday 14 October 2020 - 9 to 11 a.m. CET ([agenda](https://assets.hdc.ntnu.no/assets/tingweek/hunt-cloud-tingweek1-coordinatorting-agenda.pdf))
- **Lagtun**: Thursday 15 October 2020 - 9 to 11 a.m. CET ([agenda](https://assets.hdc.ntnu.no/assets/tingweek/hunt-cloud-tingweek1-lagtun-agenda.pdf))

### Ting week #2 (2021-02)

Location: Digital

- **Lab ting**: Tuesday 16 February 2021 -  2 to 4 p.m. CET
- **Coordinator ting**: Wednesday 17 February 2021 - 9 to 11 a.m. CET
- **Lagtun**: Thursday 18 February 2021 - 9 to 11 a.m. CET


## FAQ

### Is this an assembly? 

No. Our tings are not the same as a general assembly (generalforsamling) with binding decisions. As of today, our tings are to be seen as a gathering of people that both champion and dream up ideas on how to best utilize raw materials and technologies to make the world a better place. HUNT Cloud is owned by NTNU which has full financial and compliance responsibilities.

### Where is my invitation? 

Both the lab ting and coordinator ting are open for all HUNT Cloud users that find the topics meaningful for their work. Invitations and digital meeting links are forwarded on both lab channels and in the community channel in Slack. At this stage, invitations to Lagtun are forwarded on emails to named individuals only.

### Where is the digital meeting? 

We will meet in Zoom utilizing the NTNU subscription. Links will be forwarded in Slack for the lab ting and coordinator ting, and on email for Lagtun.

### What does the word Lagtun mean? 

We know, we know. Lagtun is hard to pronounce in english. However, in Norwegian it is a word with several meanings that we think capture the soul of our top level ting. First, **`Lag`** means "law" In Old Norse. This meaning is included in the last part of the name of our region, Trøndelag, which means the law of the Trønders. In addition, "lag" means "team" in modern Norwegian, reflecting the collaborative nature of the ting. The second part, **`tun`** is also an Old Norse word for a fenced in area, usually around a collection of farm houses, much like your fenced in lab machines. Also relevant, the old tings were held on fenced in tuns for which the the Vikings had to leave all weapons by the fence before they entered the ting.

Commit message:

ting report link and faq updates

docs/about/tingweeks.md, after:

---
title: Ting weeks
category: HUNT Cloud
permalink: /about/tingweeks
sidebarDepth: 1
description: This page list information and questions about our ting weeks.
---

# Ting weeks

We come together three times a year for information, feedback and discussions on how to develop HUNT Cloud so you best can elevate your data-driven science. 

We arrange a set of "tings" for different parts of our community. The meetings are spread out over a week. We call these weeks "ting weeks".

[[toc]]

## Tings

We define our tings as "[appointed time](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Thing_(assembly)#Etymology)" where various members of the HUNT Cloud community come together to discuss how to best optimize for value extractions from raw materials and technologies within the community. The inspiration is drawn from the Old Norse ting structures such as [Frostating](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Frostating) in Trøndelag.

We aim to establish a layered ting structure with discussions that should be meaningful for those that participate.

### Lab ting

All lab users are invited to our lab ting.

This ting will focus on the development of our core technologies and processes that your meet in your lab environments, such as storage, compute, transfer, documentation and guide, onboarding, communication etc.

The ting is scheduled for two hours. The first part will be structured by the HUNT Cloud team with information, feedback and discussions on new developments and known pain. The last part will give room for an unstructured question and answer section.

### Coordinator ting

The ting is open to all lab users, although the content is tailored for data space and lab coordinators.

This ting will focus on optimization of research management and research coordination within your data spaces and labs. This may include topics such as agreement structures, user management, resource management, lab portfolio management etc.

The ting is scheduled for two hours. The first part will be structured by the HUNT Cloud team with information, feedback and discussions on new developments and known pain. The last part will give room for an unstructured question and answer section.

### Lagtun

Data controllers and major contributors are invited.

This is our top level ting where we meet to the overall strategic direction for HUNT Cloud and data-driven science.

The ting is scheduled for two hours.


## Dates

We aim to hold ting weeks three times a year, in the fall around the autumn holidays, in the winter around the winter holidays and in the spring around the national holiday i Norway.

### Ting week #1 (2020-10)

[Ting report #1](https://assets.hdc.ntnu.no/assets/tingweek/hunt-cloud-tingweek1-report.pdf)

- **Lab ting**: Tuesday 13 October 2020 - 2 to 4 p.m. CET ([agenda](https://assets.hdc.ntnu.no/assets/tingweek/hunt-cloud-tingweek1-labting-agenda.pdf))
- **Coordinator ting**: Wednesday 14 October 2020 - 9 to 11 a.m. CET ([agenda](https://assets.hdc.ntnu.no/assets/tingweek/hunt-cloud-tingweek1-coordinatorting-agenda.pdf))
- **Lagtun**: Thursday 15 October 2020 - 9 to 11 a.m. CET ([agenda](https://assets.hdc.ntnu.no/assets/tingweek/hunt-cloud-tingweek1-lagtun-agenda.pdf))


### Ting week #2 (2021-02)

- **Lab ting**: Tuesday 16 February 2021 -  2 to 4 p.m. CET
- **Coordinator ting**: Wednesday 17 February 2021 - 10 to 12 a.m. CET
- **Lagtun**: Thursday 18 February 2021 - 10 to 12 a.m. CET


## FAQ

### Is this an assembly? 

No. Our tings are not the same as a general assembly (generalforsamling) with binding decisions. As of today, our tings are to be seen as a gathering of people that both champion and dream up ideas on how to best utilize raw materials and technologies to make the world a better place. HUNT Cloud is owned by NTNU which has full financial and compliance responsibilities.

### Where is my invitation? 

Both the lab ting and coordinator ting are open for all HUNT Cloud users that find the topics meaningful for their work. Invitations and digital meeting links are forwarded on both lab channels and in the community channel in Slack. At this stage, invitations to Lagtun are forwarded on emails to named individuals only.

### Where is the tings? 

We will meet in Zoom utilizing the NTNU subscription. Links will be forwarded in Slack for the lab ting and coordinator ting, and on email for Lagtun.

### What is the Ting report?

The intent of the Ting report is to give you the opportunity to read up on what we are doing at HUNT Cloud, as well as a little bit on why we do it. The goal is that we can meet at the tings and have informed discussion on how to best progress on our common quest to elevate data for a better world!

### Where are the minutes? 

Our tings have public agenda and internal minutes. Minutes gets distributed directly to the relevant community groups.

### What does the word Lagtun mean? 

We know, we know. Lagtun is hard to pronounce in english. However, in Norwegian it is a word with several meanings that we think capture the soul of our top level ting. First, **`Lag`** means "law" In Old Norse. This meaning is included in the last part of the name of our region, Trøndelag, which means the law of the Trønders. In addition, "lag" means "team" in modern Norwegian, reflecting the collaborative nature of the ting. The second part, **`tun`** is also an Old Norse word for a fenced in area, usually around a collection of farm houses, much like your fenced in lab machines. Also relevant, the old tings were held on fenced in tuns for which the the Vikings had to leave all weapons by the fence before they entered the ting.
