docs/contribute.md, before:

---
title: Contribute
permalink: /contribute
sidebarDepth: 0
---

# Contribute

Let's become stronger together!

We are proud of the content on these pages. They have come together as a collaborative contribution from lab users in our cloud community. All pages are carefully crafted so you can step on the shoulders of their expertise to elevate your own research!

However, they are by no means perfect. We know it's frustrating when you don't find the instant fix to your problem at hand! We are therefore greatful if you would like to help new lab users on their way by sharing your hard earned tips and tricks:

## Improve current content

Improve the text directly on a page by clicking the `Help us improve this page!` link at the bottom of each page (requires a Gitlab account), or contact us directly with improvements.

## Suggest new content

[Contact us](/contact) with ideas for new content that will help your fellow scientists fly.

## Help out on Slack

Participate in discussions to both help and learn from fellow users in topic related channels.

Commit message:

about split as separate chapter

docs/contribute.md, after:

---
title: Contribute
permalink: /contribute
sidebarDepth: 0
---

# Contribute

We are proud of the content on these pages. They have come together as a collaborative contribution from lab users in our cloud community. All pages are carefully crafted so you can step on the shoulders of their expertise to elevate your own research!

However, they are by no means perfect. We know it's frustrating when you don't find the instant fix to your problem at hand! We are therefore greatful if you would like to help new lab users on their way by sharing your hard earned tips and tricks:

1. **Suggest new content.** [Contact us](/contact) with ideas for new content that will help science fly. Also, keep asking us questions to improve the [FAQ section](/faq/) and tell us about troubles to improve the [troubleshooting section](/troubleshooting/). 

2. **Improve current content.** Improve the text directly on a page by clicking the **`Help us improve this page!`** link at the bottom of each page (requires a Gitlab account), or contact us directly with improvements.

3. **Help out on Slack.** Participate in discussions on Slack to both help and learn from fellow users in topic related channels.
