docs/README.md, before:

---
title: Welcome
category: HUNT Cloud
readingTime: null
description: HUNT Cloud is a scientific computing service located at NTNU in Norway. These pages contains official user documentation on our cloud services. Their content is aimed at lab users.
---

# Welcome to the HUNT Cloud Documentation

HUNT Cloud is a scientific computing service located at [NTNU](https://www.ntnu.edu/) in Norway.

These pages contains official user documentation on our services. The content is aimed at lab users and coordinators.

Read our [eBook](https://assets.hdc.ntnu.no/assets/ebook-hunt-cloud-services.pdf) and visit our [HUNT Cloud](https://www.ntnu.edu/mh/huntcloud) pages for general information on our services, and see our [Ting reports](/tingweek/#reports) for detailed updates on our activities.


::: tip This week: Ting week #4
- **Lab ting**: Tuesday 19 October 2021 -  2 to 4 p.m. CET
- **Coordinator ting**: Wednesday 20 October 2021 - 9 to 11 a.m. CET
- **Enterprise ting**: Wednesday 20 October 2021 - 1 to 3 p.m. CET
- **Lagtun**: Thursday 21 October 2021 - 9 to 11 a.m. CET

[Click here to learn more](/tingweek) 
::: 

::: danger NOTE
All labs are now required to upgrade to new agreement structure to adjust resources and at the latest by 1 January 2022. 

[Click here to learn more](/services/services-model) 
:::

Commit message:

removed tingweek from front page

docs/README.md, after:

---
title: Welcome
category: HUNT Cloud
readingTime: null
description: HUNT Cloud is a scientific computing service located at NTNU in Norway. These pages contains official user documentation on our cloud services. Their content is aimed at lab users.
---

# Welcome to the HUNT Cloud Documentation

HUNT Cloud is a scientific computing service located at [NTNU](https://www.ntnu.edu/) in Norway.

These pages contains official user documentation on our services. The content is aimed at lab users and coordinators.

Read our [eBook](https://assets.hdc.ntnu.no/assets/ebook-hunt-cloud-services.pdf) and visit our [HUNT Cloud](https://www.ntnu.edu/mh/huntcloud) pages for general information on our services, and see our [Ting reports](/tingweek/#reports) for detailed updates on our activities.


::: danger NOTE
All labs must update to the new agreement framework before 1 January 2022 to remain active. Upgrades are required from 1 October 2022 to adjust resources. 

[Click here to learn more](/services/services-model) 
:::
