docs/data-transfers/internal-kista.md, before:

---
title: Internal kista
category: Data transfers
permalink: /data-transfers/internal-kista
sidebarDepth: 1
description: Internal kistas provide labs with a simple and controlled way to transfer data between two labs inside HUNT Cloud.
---

# Internal kista

Internal kistas provide labs with a simple and controlled way to transfer data between two labs inside HUNT Cloud. In short, internal kistas are short-lived and hardened [SFTP](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/SSH_File_Transfer_Protocol) servers dedicated to one data transaction between two labs.

::: tip Note
This page describes the practical aspects of kista transfers. Head over to our [internal transfer](/faq/internal-transfer/) section in the FAQ for more information on the service itself.
:::


[[toc]]

## Order

Internal kistas are ordered by the uploader Lab leader or Lab coordinator using the [Internal kista transfer order](/agreements/downloads/#internal-kista-order). Forward the order [to us](/contact) for deployment.

The kista order defines two roles that we will use in this document:

- **Uploader**. This is the lab user in the lab that has ordered the Kista and that will provide (upload) data.
- **Downloader**. This the lab user in the lab that will receive (download) data.

We wil notify the lab user that registered as the uploader when the kista is deployed. The uploader is responsible for notifying the downloader when data is uploaded and ready to be downloaded.

## Connect

You can view the kista transfer information directly from your home machine both as a uploader and downloader:

1. Log into your home machine
2. View the kista transfer information in the **`/opt/hunt-cloud/kista/`** folder:

```bash
# -- List kista transfer information files
ls /opt/hunt-cloud/kista/

# -- Principle example to see transfer information
cat /opt/hunt-cloud/kista/*<number>*

# -- Practical example to see transfer information
cat /opt/hunt-cloud/kista/*5623*
```

The transfer information will look similar to this:

```bash
### SFTP account information
Protocol: sftp
Server: 10.42.132.<number>
Port: 22
Username: <username>-<role>
```

*Note. The information above is for illustration and will not work for your connection. Your account information will contain different information for the "Server" and "Username".*

Next, connect to your kista using the SFTP protocol. This may seem unfamiliar at first, however its simple to use once you get going:

3. From your home machine, connect to the kista over SFTP using the transfer information collected above.

```bash
# -- Principal example
sftp <usernam>-<role>@10.42.132.<number>

# -- Demo example uploader
sftp demouser-upload@10.42.132.118

# -- Demo example downloader
sftp demouser-download@10.42.132.118
```

When successfully connected, you should see the following message in your terminal:

```
Connected to 10.42.132.<number>.
sftp>
```

## Upload

::: tip
This section is aimed at the lab user that will **upload** data to a kista. See the [download section](#download) if you plan to download data to your lab.
:::

1. Once inside your kista, move to the **`upload`** folder.

```bash
cd upload
```

2. Upload a file or folder by specifying its local path on your home machine.

```bash
# -- Upload individual file
put /mnt/cargo/example-file1.txt

# -- Upload folder
put -r /mnt/cargo/example-directory/
```

3. List files the current directory to verify the transfer

```bash
ls -lah
```

4. Disconnect from your the SFTP-server

```bash
quit
```

For large uploads, [terminal multiplexers](/working-in-your-lab/technical-tools/terminal-multiplexers/#gnu-screen) can be a handy tool allowing for the transfer to continue even when you log off from your home machine.

You can resume an upload with this command:

```bash
reput /mnt/cargo/example-file1.txt
```



## Download

::: tip
This section is aimed at the lab user that will **download** data from a kista.
:::

1. Once inside your kista, move to the **`upload`** folder.

```bash
cd upload
```

2. List files in the current directory.

```bash
ls -lah
```

2. Download a file or folder by specifying the file or folder name and the local path that you want to download to.

```bash
# -- Principal example
get <sftp-file> <home-machine-folder>

# -- Download individual file
get example-filename1.txt /mnt/cargo/

# -- Download folder
get -r example-directory /mnt/cargo/
```

3. Disconnect from your the SFTP-server

```bash
quit
```

For large downloads, [terminal multiplexers](/working-in-your-lab/technical-tools/terminal-multiplexers/#gnu-screen) can be a handy tool allowing for the transfer to continue even when you log off from your home machine.

You can resume a download with this command:

```bash
reget /mnt/cargo/example-file1.txt
```

## Troubleshooting

#### WARNING: Remote host identification has changed

You might see this warning message when you log into a kista that has been rebuild on the same IP as you have used for a previous kista transport.

```bash
@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@
@    WARNING: REMOTE HOST IDENTIFICATION HAS CHANGED!     @
@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@
```

[Click here](/troubleshooting/connection/#warning-remote-host-identification-has-changed) to see the full message and explanation in our main troubleshooting section. You may ignore this message if you connect to a kista inside your lab. 

You can remove the message and proceed with the login by running the command that is stated at the end of the screen message similar to:

```bash
ssh-keygen -f "/home/<username>/.ssh/known_hosts" -R "10.42.<number>.<number>"
```

Commit message:

service desk and text tweaks

docs/data-transfers/internal-kista.md, after:

---
title: Internal kista
category: Data transfers
permalink: /data-transfers/internal-kista
sidebarDepth: 1
description: Internal kistas provide labs with a simple and controlled way to transfer data between two labs inside HUNT Cloud.
---

# Internal kista

**Internal kistas provide labs with a simple and controlled way to transfer data between two labs inside HUNT Cloud.**

[[toc]]

In short, internal kistas are short-lived and hardened [SFTP](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/SSH_File_Transfer_Protocol) servers dedicated to one data transaction between two labs.

::: tip Note
This page describes the practical aspects of kista transfers. Head over to our [internal transfer](/faq/internal-transfer/) section in the FAQ for more information on the service itself.
:::



## Order

Lab leaders and lab coordinators can order internal kistas in our [service desk](/service-desk/lab-orders/#internal-kista). 

## Roles 

The kista order defines two roles that we will use in this document:

- **Uploader**. This is the lab user in the lab that has ordered the Kista and that will provide (upload) data.
- **Downloader**. This the lab user in the lab that will receive (download) data.

We wil notify the lab user that registered as the uploader when the kista is deployed. The uploader is responsible for notifying the downloader when data is uploaded and ready to be downloaded.

## Connect

You can view the kista transfer information directly from your home machine both as a uploader and downloader:

1. Log into your home machine
2. View the kista transfer information in the **`/opt/hunt-cloud/kista/`** folder:

```bash
# -- List kista transfer information files
ls /opt/hunt-cloud/kista/

# -- Principle example to see transfer information
cat /opt/hunt-cloud/kista/*<number>*

# -- Practical example to see transfer information
cat /opt/hunt-cloud/kista/*5623*
```

The transfer information will look similar to this:

```bash
### SFTP account information
Protocol: sftp
Server: 10.42.132.<number>
Port: 22
Username: <username>-<role>
```

*Note. The information above is for illustration and will not work for your connection. Your account information will contain different information for the "Server" and "Username".*

Next, connect to your kista using the SFTP protocol. This may seem unfamiliar at first, however its simple to use once you get going:

3. From your home machine, connect to the kista over SFTP using the transfer information collected above.

```bash
# -- Principal example
sftp <usernam>-<role>@10.42.132.<number>

# -- Demo example uploader
sftp demouser-upload@10.42.132.118

# -- Demo example downloader
sftp demouser-download@10.42.132.118
```

When successfully connected, you should see the following message in your terminal:

```
Connected to 10.42.132.<number>.
sftp>
```

## Upload

::: tip
This section is aimed at the lab user that will **upload** data to a kista. See the [download section](#download) if you plan to download data to your lab.
:::

1. Once inside your kista, move to the **`upload`** folder.

```bash
cd upload
```

2. Upload a file or folder by specifying its local path on your home machine.

```bash
# -- Upload individual file
put /mnt/cargo/example-file1.txt

# -- Upload folder
put -r /mnt/cargo/example-directory/
```

3. List files the current directory to verify the transfer

```bash
ls -lah
```

4. Disconnect from your the SFTP-server

```bash
quit
```

For large uploads, [terminal multiplexers](/working-in-your-lab/technical-tools/terminal-multiplexers/#gnu-screen) can be a handy tool allowing for the transfer to continue even when you log off from your home machine.

You can resume an upload with this command:

```bash
reput /mnt/cargo/example-file1.txt
```



## Download

::: tip
This section is aimed at the lab user that will **download** data from a kista. See the [upload section](#upload) if you plan to download data to your lab.

:::

1. Once inside your kista, move to the **`upload`** folder.

```bash
cd upload
```

2. List files in the current directory.

```bash
ls -lah
```

2. Download a file or folder by specifying the file or folder name and the local path that you want to download to.

```bash
# -- Principal example
get <sftp-file> <home-machine-folder>

# -- Download individual file
get example-filename1.txt /mnt/cargo/

# -- Download folder
get -r example-directory /mnt/cargo/
```

3. Disconnect from your the SFTP-server

```bash
quit
```

For large downloads, [terminal multiplexers](/working-in-your-lab/technical-tools/terminal-multiplexers/#gnu-screen) can be a handy tool allowing for the transfer to continue even when you log off from your home machine.

You can resume a download with this command:

```bash
reget /mnt/cargo/example-file1.txt
```

## Troubleshooting

#### WARNING: Remote host identification has changed

You might see this warning message when you log into a kista that has been rebuild on the same IP as you have used for a previous kista transport.

```bash
@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@
@    WARNING: REMOTE HOST IDENTIFICATION HAS CHANGED!     @
@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@
```

::: details Solution

[Click here](/troubleshooting/connection/#warning-remote-host-identification-has-changed) to see the full message and explanation in our main troubleshooting section. You may ignore this message if you connect to a kista inside your lab. 

You can remove the message and proceed with the login by running the command that is stated at the end of the screen message similar to:

```bash
ssh-keygen -f "/home/<username>/.ssh/known_hosts" -R "10.42.<number>.<number>"
```
:::
